life in the deep oceans 
 with vibrant video clips captured by submarines , david gallo takes us to some of earth 's darkest , most violent , toxic and beautiful habitats , the valleys and volcanic ridges of the oceans ' depths , where life is bizarre , resilient and shockingly abundant .
this is bill lange . i 'm dave gallo .
and we 're going to tell you some stories from the sea here in video .
we 've got some of the most incredible video of titanic that 's ever been seen , and we 're not going to show you any of it .
the truth of the matter is that the titanic -- even though it 's breaking all sorts of box office records -- it 's not the most exciting story from the sea .
and the problem , i think , is that we take the ocean for granted .
when you think about it , the oceans are 75 percent of the planet .
most of the planet is ocean water .
the average depth is about two miles .
part of the problem , i think , is we stand at the beach , or we see images like this of the ocean , and you look out at this great big blue expanse , and it 's shimmering and it 's moving and there 's waves and there 's surf and there 's tides , but you have no idea for what lies in there .
and in the oceans , there are the longest mountain ranges on the planet .
most of the animals are in the oceans .
most of the earthquakes and volcanoes are in the sea , at the bottom of the sea .
the biodiversity and the biodensity in the ocean is higher , in places , than it is in the rainforests .
it 's mostly unexplored , and yet there are beautiful sights like this that captivate us and make us become familiar with it .
but when you 're standing at the beach , i want you to think that you 're standing at the edge of a very unfamiliar world .
we have to have a very special technology to get into that unfamiliar world .
we use the submarine alvin and we use cameras , and the cameras are something that bill lange has developed with the help of sony .
marcel proust said , " the true voyage of discovery is not so much in seeking new landscapes as in having new eyes . "
people that have partnered with us have given us new eyes , not only on what exists -- the new landscapes at the bottom of the sea -- but also how we think about life on the planet itself .
here 's a jelly .
it 's one of my favorites , because it 's got all sorts of working parts .
this turns out to be the longest creature in the oceans .
it gets up to about 150 feet long .
but see all those different working things ?
i love that kind of stuff .
it 's got these fishing lures on the bottom . they 're going up and down .
it 's got tentacles dangling , swirling around like that .
it 's a colonial animal .
these are all individual animals banding together to make this one creature .
and it 's got these jet thrusters up in front that it 'll use in a moment , and a little light .
if you take all the big fish and schooling fish and all that , put them on one side of the scale , put all the jelly - type of animals on the other side , those guys win hands down .
most of the biomass in the ocean is made out of creatures like this .
here 's the x - wing death jelly .
the bioluminescence -- they use the lights for attracting mates and attracting prey and communicating .
we could n't begin to show you our archival stuff from the jellies .
they come in all different sizes and shapes .
we tend to forget about the fact that the ocean is miles deep on average , and that we 're real familiar with the animals that are in the first 200 or 300 feet , but we 're not familiar with what exists from there all the way down to the bottom .
and these are the types of animals that live in that three - dimensional space , that micro - gravity environment that we really have n't explored .
you hear about giant squid and things like that , but some of these animals get up to be approximately 140 , 160 feet long .
they 're very little understood .
this is one of them , another one of our favorites , because it 's a little octopod .
you can actually see through his head .
and here he is , flapping with his ears and very gracefully going up .
we see those at all depths and even at the greatest depths .
they go from a couple of inches to a couple of feet .
they come right up to the submarine -- they 'll put their eyes right up to the window and peek inside the sub .
this is really a world within a world , and we 're going to show you two .
in this case , we 're passing down through the mid - ocean and we see creatures like this .
this is kind of like an undersea rooster .
this guy , that looks incredibly formal , in a way .
and then one of my favorites . what a face !
this is basically scientific data that you 're looking at .
it 's footage that we 've collected for scientific purposes .
and that 's one of the things that bill 's been doing , is providing scientists with this first view of animals like this , in the world where they belong .
they do n't catch them in a net .
they 're actually looking at them down in that world .
we 're going to take a joystick , sit in front of our computer , on the earth , and press the joystick forward , and fly around the planet .
we 're going to look at the mid - ocean ridge , a 40,000 - mile long mountain range .
the average depth at the top of it is about a mile and a half .
and we 're over the atlantic -- that 's the ridge right there -- but we 're going to go across the caribbean , central america , and end up against the pacific , nine degrees north .
we make maps of these mountain ranges with sound , with sonar , and this is one of those mountain ranges .
we 're coming around a cliff here on the right .
the height of these mountains on either side of this valley is greater than the alps in most cases .
and there 's tens of thousands of those mountains out there that have n't been mapped yet .
this is a volcanic ridge .
we 're getting down further and further in scale .
and eventually , we can come up with something like this .
this is an icon of our robot , jason , it 's called .
and you can sit in a room like this , with a joystick and a headset , and drive a robot like that around the bottom of the ocean in real time .
one of the things we 're trying to do at woods hole with our partners is to bring this virtual world -- this world , this unexplored region -- back to the laboratory .
because we see it in bits and pieces right now .
we see it either as sound , or we see it as video , or we see it as photographs , or we see it as chemical sensors , but we never have yet put it all together into one interesting picture .
here 's where bill 's cameras really do shine .
this is what 's called a hydrothermal vent .
and what you 're seeing here is a cloud of densely packed , hydrogen - sulfide - rich water coming out of a volcanic axis on the sea floor .
gets up to 600 , 700 degrees f , somewhere in that range .
so that 's all water under the sea -- a mile and a half , two miles , three miles down .
and we knew it was volcanic back in the ' 60s , ' 70s .
and then we had some hint that these things existed all along the axis of it , because if you 've got volcanism , water 's going to get down from the sea into cracks in the sea floor , come in contact with magma , and come shooting out hot .
we were n't really aware that it would be so rich with sulfides , hydrogen sulfides .
we did n't have any idea about these things , which we call chimneys .
this is one of these hydrothermal vents .
six hundred degree f water coming out of the earth .
on either side of us are mountain ranges that are higher than the alps , so the setting here is very dramatic .
the white material is a type of bacteria that thrives at 180 degrees c .
i think that 's one of the greatest stories right now that we 're seeing from the bottom of the sea , is that the first thing we see coming out of the sea floor after a volcanic eruption is bacteria .
and we started to wonder for a long time , how did it all get down there ?
what we find out now is that it 's probably coming from inside the earth .
not only is it coming out of the earth -- so , biogenesis made from volcanic activity -- but that bacteria supports these colonies of life .
the pressure here is 4,000 pounds per square inch .
a mile and a half from the surface to two miles to three miles -- no sun has ever gotten down here .
all the energy to support these life forms is coming from inside the earth -- so , chemosynthesis .
and you can see how dense the population is .
these are called tube worms .
these worms have no digestive system . they have no mouth .
but they have two types of gill structures .
one for extracting oxygen out of the deep - sea water , another one which houses this chemosynthetic bacteria , which takes the hydrothermal fluid -- that hot water that you saw coming out of the bottom -- and converts that into simple sugars that the tube worm can digest .
you can see , here 's a crab that lives down there .
he 's managed to grab a tip of these worms .
now , they normally retract as soon as a crab touches them .
oh ! good going .
so , as soon as a crab touches them , they retract down into their shells , just like your fingernails .
there 's a whole story being played out here that we 're just now beginning to have some idea of because of this new camera technology .
these worms live in a real temperature extreme .
their foot is at about 200 degrees c and their head is out at three degrees c , so it 's like having your hand in boiling water and your foot in freezing water .
that 's how they like to live .
this is a female of this kind of worm .
and here 's a male .
you watch . it does n't take long before two guys here -- this one and one that will show up over here -- start to fight .
everything you see is played out in the pitch black of the deep sea .
there are never any lights there , except the lights that we bring .
here they go .
on one of the last dive series , we counted 200 species in these areas -- 198 were new , new species .
one of the big problems is that for the biologists working at these sites , it 's rather difficult to collect these animals .
and they disintegrate on the way up , so the imagery is critical for the science .
two octopods at about two miles depth .
this pressure thing really amazes me -- that these animals can exist there at a depth with pressure enough to crush the titanic like an empty pepsi can .
what we saw up till now was from the pacific .
this is from the atlantic . even greater depth .
you can see this shrimp is harassing this poor little guy here , and he 'll bat it away with his claw . whack !
and the same thing 's going on over here .
what they 're getting at is that -- on the back of this crab -- the foodstuff here is this very strange bacteria that lives on the backs of all these animals .
and what these shrimp are trying to do is actually harvest the bacteria from the backs of these animals .
and the crabs do n't like it at all .
these long filaments that you see on the back of the crab are actually created by the product of that bacteria .
so , the bacteria grows hair on the crab .
on the back , you see this again .
the red dot is the laser light of the submarine alvin to give us an idea about how far away we are from the vents .
those are all shrimp .
you see the hot water over here , here and here , coming out .
they 're clinging to a rock face and actually scraping bacteria off that rock face .
here 's a tiny , little vent that 's come out of the side of that pillar .
those pillars get up to several stories .
so here , you 've got this valley with this incredible alien landscape of pillars and hot springs and volcanic eruptions and earthquakes , inhabited by these very strange animals that live only on chemical energy coming out of the ground .
they do n't need the sun at all .
you see this white v - shaped mark on the back of the shrimp ?
it 's actually a light - sensing organ .
it 's how they find the hydrothermal vents .
the vents are emitting a black body radiation -- an ir signature -- and so they 're able to find these vents at considerable distances .
all this stuff is happening along that 40,000 - mile long mountain range that we 're calling the ribbon of life , because just even today , as we speak , there 's life being generated there from volcanic activity .
this is the first time we 've ever tried this any place .
we 're going to try to show you high definition from the pacific .
we 're moving up one of these pillars .
this one 's several stories tall .
in it , you 'll see that it 's a habitat for a lot of different animals .
there 's a funny kind of hot plate here , with vent water coming out of it .
so all of these are individual homes for worms .
now here 's a closer view of that community .
here 's crabs here , worms here .
there are smaller animals crawling around .
here 's pagoda structures .
i think this is the neatest - looking thing .
i just can n't get over this -- that you 've got these little chimneys sitting here smoking away .
this stuff is toxic as hell , by the way .
you could never get a permit to dump this in the ocean , and it 's coming out all from it .
it 's unbelievable . it 's basically sulfuric acid , and it 's being just dumped out , at incredible rates .
and animals are thriving -- and we probably came from here .
that 's probably where we evolved from .
this bacteria that we 've been talking about turns out to be the most simplest form of life found .
there are a number of groups that are proposing that life evolved at these vent sites .
although the vent sites are short - lived -- an individual site may last only 10 years or so -- as an ecosystem they 've been stable for millions -- well , billions -- of years .
it works too well . you see there 're some fish inside here as well .
there 's a fish sitting here .
here 's a crab with his claw right at the end of that tube worm , waiting for that worm to stick his head out .
the biologists right now cannot explain why these animals are so active .
the worms are growing inches per week !
i already said that this site , from a human perspective , is toxic as hell .
not only that , but on top -- the lifeblood -- that plumbing system turns off every year or so .
their plumbing system turns off , so the sites have to move .
and then there 's earthquakes , and then volcanic eruptions , on the order of one every five years , that completely wipes the area out .
despite that , these animals grow back in about a year 's time .
you 're talking about biodensities and biodiversity , again , higher than the rainforest that just springs back to life .
is it sensitive ? yes .
is it fragile ? no , it 's not really very fragile .
i 'll end up with saying one thing .
there 's a story in the sea , in the waters of the sea , in the sediments and the rocks of the sea floor .
it 's an incredible story .
what we see when we look back in time , in those sediments and rocks , is a record of earth history .
everything on this planet -- everything -- works by cycles and rhythms .
the continents move apart . they come back together .
oceans come and go . mountains come and go . glaciers come and go .
el nino comes and goes . it 's not a disaster , it 's rhythmic .
what we 're learning now , it 's almost like a symphony .
it 's just like music -- it really is just like music .
and what we 're learning now is that you can n't listen to a five - billion - year long symphony , get to today and say , " stop ! we want tomorrow 's note to be the same as it was today . "
it 's absurd . it 's just absurd .
so , what we 've got to learn now is to find out where this planet 's going at all these different scales and work with it .
learn to manage it .
the concept of preservation is futile .
conservation 's tougher , but we can probably get there .
thank you very much .
thank you .
steve keil : a manifesto for play , for bulgaria and beyond 
 steve keil fights the " serious meme " that has infected his home of bulgaria -- and calls for a return to play to revitalize the economy , education and society . a sparkling talk with a universal message for people everywhere who are reinventing their workplaces , schools , lives . & lt ; em & gt ;& lt ;/ em & gt ;
i 'm here today to start a revolution .
now before you get up in arms , or you break into song , or you pick a favorite color , i want to define what i mean by revolution .
by revolution , i mean a drastic and far - reaching change in the way we think and behave -- the way we think and the way we behave .
now why , steve , why do we need a revolution ?
we need a revolution because things are n't working ; they 're just not working .
and that makes me really sad because i 'm sick and tired of things not working .
you know , i 'm sick and tired of us not living up to our potential .
i 'm sick and tired of us being last .
and we are last place in so many things -- for example , social factors .
we 're last place in europe in innovation .
there we are right at the end , right at the bottom , last place as a culture that does n't value innovation .
we 're last place in health care , and that 's important for a sense of well - being .
and there we are , not just last in the e.u. , we 're last in europe , at the very bottom .
and worst of all , it just came out three weeks ago , many of you have seen it , the economist .
we 're the saddest place on earth , relative to gdp per capita -- the saddest place on earth .
that 's social . let 's look at education .
where do we rank three weeks ago in another report by the oecd ?
last in reading , math and science . last .
business : the lowest perception in the e.u.
that entrepreneurs provide benefits to society .
why as a result , what happens ?
the lowest percentage of entrepreneurs starting businesses .
and this is despite the fact that everybody knows that small business is the engine of economies .
we hire the most people ; we create the most taxes .
so if our engine 's broken , guess what ?
last in europe gdp per capita .
last .
so it 's no surprise , guys , that 62 percent of bulgarians are not optimistic about the future .
we 're unhappy , we have bad education , and we have the worst businesses .
and these are facts , guys .
this is n't story tale ; it 's not make - believe .
it 's not .
it 's not a conspiracy i have got against bulgaria . these are facts .
so i think it should be really , really clear that our system is broken .
the way we think , the way we behave , our operating system of behaving is broken .
we need a drastic change in the way we think and behave to transform bulgaria for the better , for ourselves , for our friends , for our family and for our future .
how did this happen ?
let 's be positive now . we 're going to get positive . how did this happen ?
i think we 're last because -- and this is going to be drastic to some of you -- because we are handicapping ourselves .
we 're holding ourselves back because we do n't value play .
i said " play , " all right .
in case some of you forgot what play is , this is what play looks like .
babies play , kids play , adults play .
we do n't value play .
in fact , we devalue play .
and we devalue it in three areas .
let 's go back to the same three areas .
social : 45 years of what ?
of communism -- of valuing the society and the state over the individual and squashing , inadvertently , creativity , individual self-expression and innovation .
and instead , what do we value ?
because it 's shown the way we apply , generate and use knowledge is affected by our social and institutional context , which told us what in communism ?
to be serious .
to be really , really serious .
it did .
be serious .
i can n't tell you how many times i 've been scolded in the park for letting my kids play on the ground .
heaven forbid they play in the dirt , the kal , or even worse , lokvi , water -- that will kill them .
i have been told by babas and dyados that we should n't let our kids play so much because life is serious and we need to train them for the seriousness of life .
we have a serious meme running through .
it 's a social gene running through us .
it 's a serious gene .
it 's 45 years of it that 's created what i call the " baba factor . "
and here 's how it works .
step one : woman says , " i want to have a baby . iskam baby . "
step two : we get the baby . woohoo !
but then what happens in step three ?
i want to go back to work because i need to further my career or i just want to go have coffees .
i 'm going to give bebko to baba .
but we need to remember that baba 's been infected by the serious meme for 45 years .
so what happens ?
she passes that virus on to baby , and it takes a really , really , really long time -- as the redwood trees -- for that serious meme to get out of our operating system .
what happens then ?
it goes into education where we have an antiquated education system that has little changed for 100 years , that values rote learning , memorization and standardization , and devalues self-expression , self-exploration , questioning , creativity and play .
it 's a crap system .
true story : i went looking for a school for my kid .
we went to this prestigious little school and they say they 're going to study math 10 times a week and science eight times a week and reading five times a day and all this stuff .
and we said , " well what about play and recess ? "
and they said , " ha . there won n't be a single moment in the schedule . "
and we said , " he 's five . "
what a crime . what a crime .
and it 's a crime that our education system is so serious because education is serious that we 're creating mindless , robotic workers to put bolts in pre-drilled holes .
but i 'm sorry , the problems of today are not the problems of the industrial revolution .
we need adaptability , the ability to learn how to be creative and innovative .
we do n't need mechanized workers .
but no , now our meme goes into work where we do n't value play .
we create robotic workers that we treat like assets , to lever and just throw away .
what are qualities of a bulgarian work ?
autocratic -- do what i say because i 'm the chef .
i 'm the boss and i know better than you .
untrusting -- you 're obviously a criminal , so i 'm going to install cameras .
controlling -- you 're obviously an idiot , so i 'm going to make a zillion little processes for you to follow so you do n't step out of the box .
so they 're restrictive -- do n't use your mobile phone , do n't use your laptop , do n't search the internet , do n't be on i . m .
that 's somehow unprofessional and bad .
and at the end of the day , it 's unfulfilling because you 're controlled , you 're restricted , you 're not valued and you 're not having any fun .
in social , in education and in our business , do n't value play .
and that 's why we 're last , because we do n't value play .
and you can say , " that 's ridiculous , steve . what a dumb idea .
it can n't be because of play .
just play , that 's a stupid thing . "
we have the serious meme in us .
well i 'm going to say no .
and i will prove it to you in the next part of the speech -- that play is the catalyst , it is the revolution , that we can use to transform bulgaria for the better .
play : our brains are hardwired for play .
evolution has selected , over millions and billions of years , for play in animals and in humans .
and you know what ?
evolution does a really , really good job of deselecting traits that are n't advantageous to us and selecting traits for competitive advantage .
nature is n't stupid , and it selected for play .
throughout the animal kingdom , for example : ants . ants play .
maybe you did n't know that .
but when they 're playing , they 're learning the social order and dynamics of things .
rats play , but what you might not have known is that rats that play more have bigger brains and they learn tasks better , skills .
kittens play . we all know kittens play .
but what you may not know is that kittens deprived of play are unable to interact socially .
they can still hunt , but they can n't be social .
bears play .
but what you may not know is that bears that play more survive longer .
it 's not the bears that learn how to fish better .
it 's the ones that play more .
and a final really interesting study -- it 's been shown , a correlation between play and brain size .
the more you play , the bigger the brains there are .
dolphins , pretty big brains , play a lot .
but who do you think with the biggest brains are the biggest players ?
yours truly : humans .
kids play , we play -- of every nationality , of every race , of every color , of every religion .
it 's a universal thing -- we play .
and it 's not just kids , it 's adults too .
really cool term : neoteny -- the retention of play and juvenile traits in adults .
and who are the biggest neotenists ?
humans . we play sports .
we do it for fun , or as olympians , or as professionals .
we play musical instruments .
we dance , we kiss , we sing , we just goof around .
we 're designed by nature to play from birth to old age .
we 're designed to do that continuously -- to play and play a lot and not stop playing .
it is a huge benefit .
just like there 's benefits to animals , there 's benefits to humans .
for example , it 's been shown to stimulate neural growth in the amygdala , in the area where it controls emotions .
it 's been shown to promote pre-frontal cortex development where a lot of cognition is happening .
as a result , what happens ?
we develop more emotional maturity if we play more .
we develop better decision - making ability if we play more .
these guys are facts .
it 's not fiction , it 's not story tales , it 's not make - believe ; it 's cold , hard science .
these are the benefits to play .
it is a genetic birthright that we have , like walking or speaking or seeing .
and if we handicap ourselves with play , we handicap ourselves as if we would with any other birthright that we have .
we hold ourselves back .
little exercise just for a second : close your eyes and try to imagine a world without play .
imagine a world without theater , without the arts , without song , without dancing , without soccer , without football , without laughter .
what does this world look like ?
it 's pretty bleak .
it 's pretty glum .
now imagine your workplace .
is it fun ? is it playful ?
or maybe the workplace of your friends -- here we 're forward thinking .
is it fun ? is it playful ?
or is it crap ? is it autocratic , controlling , restrictive and untrusting and unfulfilling ?
we have this concept that the opposite of play is work .
we even feel guilty if we 're seen playing at work .
" oh , my colleagues see me laughing . i must not have enough work , " or , " oh , i 've got to hide because my boss might see me .
he 's going to think i 'm not working hard . "
but i have news for you : our thinking is backwards .
the opposite of play is not work .
the opposite of play is depression . it 's depression .
in fact , play improves our work .
just like there 's benefits for humans and animals , there 's benefits for play at work .
for example , it stimulates creativity .
it increases our openness to change .
it improves our ability to learn .
it provides a sense of purpose and mastery -- two key motivational things that increase productivity , through play .
so before you start thinking of play as just not serious , play does n't mean frivolous .
you know , the professional athlete that loves skiing , he 's serious about it , but he loves it .
he 's having fun , he 's in the groove , he 's in the flow .
a doctor might be serious , but laughter 's still a great medicine .
our thinking is backwards .
we should n't be feeling guilty .
we should be celebrating play .
quick example from the corporate world .
fedex , easy motto : people , service , profit .
if you treat your people like people , if you treat them great , they 're happier , they 're fulfilled , they have a sense of mastery and purpose .
what happens ? they give better service -- not worse , but better .
and when customers call for service and they 're dealing with happy people that can make decisions and are fulfilled , how do the customers feel ? they feel great .
and what do great customers do , great - feeling customers ?
they buy more of your service and they tell more of their friends , which leads to more profit .
people , service , profit .
play increases productivity , not decreases .
and you 're going to say , " gee , that can work for fedex out there in the united states , but it can n't work in bulgaria .
no way . we 're different . "
it does work in bulgaria , you guys . two reasons .
one , play is universal .
there 's nothing weird about bulgarians that we can n't play , besides the serious meme that we have to kick out .
two , i 've tried it . i 've tried at sciant .
when i got there , we had zero happy customers .
not one customer would refer us .
i asked them all .
we had marginal profit -- i did .
we had marginal profits , and we had unhappy stakeholders .
through some basic change , change like improving transparency , change like promoting self-direction and collaboration , encouraging collaboration , not autocracy , the things like having a results - focus .
i do n't care when you get in in the morning . i do n't care when you leave .
i care that your customer and your team is happy and you 're organized with that .
why do i care if you get in at nine o'clock ?
basically promoting fun .
through promoting fun and a great environment , we were able to transform sciant and , in just three short years -- sounds like a long time , but change is slow -- every customer , from zero to every customer referring us , above average profits for the industry and happy stakeholders .
and you can say , " well how do you know they 're happy ? "
well we did win , every year that we entered , one of the rankings for best employer for small business .
independent analysis from anonymous employees on their surveys .
it does , and it can , work in bulgaria .
there 's nothing holding us back , except our own mentality about play .
so some steps that we can take -- to finish up -- how to make this revolution through play .
first of all , you have to believe me .
if you do n't believe me , well just go home and think about it some more or something .
second of all , if you do n't have the feeling of play in you , you need to rediscover play .
whatever it was that as a kid you used to enjoy , that you enjoyed only six months ago , but now that you 've got that promotion you can n't enjoy , because you feel like you have to be serious , rediscover it .
i do n't care if it 's mountain biking or reading a book or playing a game .
rediscover that because you 're the leaders , the innovation leaders , the thought leaders .
you 're the ones that have to go back to the office or talk to your friends and ignite the fire of change in the play revolution .
you guys have to , and if you 're not feeling it , your colleagues , your employees , are n't going to feel it .
you 've got to go back and say , " hey , i 'm going to trust you . "
weird concept : i hired you ; i should trust you .
i 'm going to let you make decisions . i 'm going to empower you , and i 'm going to delegate to the lowest level , rather than the top .
i 'm going to encourage constructive criticism .
i 'm going to let you challenge authority .
because it 's by challenging the way things are always done is that we are able to break out of the rut that we 're in and create innovative solutions to problems of today .
we 're not always right as leaders .
we 're going to eradicate fear .
fear is the enemy of play .
and we 're going to do things like eliminate restrictions .
you know what , let them use their mobile phone for personal calls -- heaven forbid .
let them be on the internet .
let them be on instant messengers .
let them take long lunches .
lunch is like the recess for work .
it 's when you go out in the world and you recharge your brain , you meet your friends , you have a beer , you have some food , you talk , you get some synergy of ideas that maybe you would n't have had before .
let them do it . give them some freedom , and in general , let them play . let them have fun at the workplace .
we spend so much of our lives at the workplace , and it 's supposed to be , what , a miserable grind , so that 20 years from now , we wake up and say , " is this it ?
is that all there was ? "
unacceptable . nepriemliv .
so in summary , we need a drastic change in the way we think and behave , but we do n't need a workers ' revolution .
we do n't need a workers ' revolution .
what we need is a players ' uprising .
what we need is a players ' uprising .
what we need is a players ' uprising .
seriously , we need to band together .
today is the start of the uprising .
but what you need to do is fan the flames of the revolution .
you need to go and share your ideas and your success stories of what worked about reinvigorating our lives , our schools , and our work with play ; about how play promotes a sense of promise and self-fulfillment ; of how play promotes innovation and productivity , and , ultimately , how play creates meaning .
because we can n't do it alone . we have to do it together , and together , if we do this and share these ideas on play , we can transform bulgaria for the better .
thank you .
andreas schleicher : use data to build better schools 
 how can we measure what makes a school system work ? andreas schleicher walks us through the pisa test , a global measurement that ranks countries against one another -- then uses that same data to help schools improve . watch to find out where your country stacks up , and learn the single factor that makes some systems outperform others .
radical openness is still a distant future in the field of school education .
we have such a hard time figuring out that learning is not a place but an activity .
but i want to tell you the story of pisa , oecd 's test to measure the knowledge and skills of 15 - year - olds around the world , and it 's really a story of how international comparisons have globalized the field of education that we usually treat as an affair of domestic policy .
look at how the world looked in the 1960s , in terms of the proportion of people who had completed high school .
you can see the united states ahead of everyone else , and much of the economic success of the united states draws on its long - standing advantage as the first mover in education .
but in the 1970s , some countries caught up .
in the 1980s , the global expansion of the talent pool continued .
and the world did n't stop in the 1990s .
so in the ' 60s , the u.s. was first .
in the ' 90s , it was 13th , and not because standards had fallen , but because they had risen so much faster elsewhere .
korea shows you what 's possible in education .
two generations ago , korea had the standard of living of afghanistan today , and was one of the lowest education performers .
today , every young korean finishes high school .
so this tells us that , in a global economy , it is no longer national improvement that 's the benchmark for success , but the best performing education systems internationally .
the trouble is that measuring how much time people spend in school or what degree they have got is not always a good way of seeing what they can actually do .
look at the toxic mix of unemployed graduates on our streets , while employers say they cannot find the people with the skills they need .
and that tells you that better degrees do n't automatically translate into better skills and better jobs and better lives .
so with pisa , we try to change this by measuring the knowledge and skills of people directly .
and we took a very special angle to this .
we were less interested in whether students can simply reproduce what they have learned in school , but we wanted to test whether they can extrapolate from what they know and apply their knowledge in novel situations .
now , some people have criticized us for this .
they say , you know , such a way of measuring outcomes is terribly unfair to people , because we test students with problems they have n't seen before .
but if you take that logic , you know , you should consider life unfair , because the test of truth in life is not whether we can remember what we learned in school , but whether we are prepared for change , whether we are prepared for jobs that have n't been created , to use technologies that have n't been invented , to solve problems we just can n't anticipate today .
and once hotly contested , our way of measuring outcomes has actually quickly become the standard .
in our latest assessment in 2009 , we measured 74 school systems that together cover 87 percent of the economy .
this chart shows you the performance of countries .
in red , sort of below oecd average .
yellow is so - so , and in green are the countries doing really well .
you can see shanghai , korea , singapore in asia ; finland in europe ; canada in north america doing really well .
you can also see that there is a gap of almost three and a half school years between 15 - year - olds in shanghai and 15 - year - olds in chile , and the gap grows to seven school years when you include the countries with really poor performance .
there 's a world of difference in the way in which young people are prepared for today 's economy .
but i want to introduce a second important dimension into this picture .
educators like to talk about equity .
with pisa , we wanted to measure how they actually deliver equity , in terms of ensuring that people from different social backgrounds have equal chances .
and we see that in some countries , the impact of social background on learning outcomes is very , very strong .
opportunities are unequally distributed .
a lot of potential of young children is wasted .
we see in other countries that it matters much less into which social context you 're born .
we all want to be there , in the upper right quadrant , where performance is strong and learning opportunities are equally distributed .
nobody , and no country , can afford to be there , where performance is poor and there are large social disparities .
and then we can debate , you know , is it better to be there , where performance is strong at the price of large disparities ?
or do we want to focus on equity and accept mediocrity ?
but actually , if you look at how countries come out on this picture , you see there are a lot of countries that actually are combining excellence with equity .
in fact , one of the most important lessons from this comparison is that you do n't have to compromise equity to achieve excellence .
these countries have moved on from providing excellence for just some to providing excellence for all , a very important lesson .
and that also challenges the paradigms of many school systems that believe they are mainly there to sort people .
and ever since those results came out , policymakers , educators , researchers from around the world have tried to figure out what 's behind the success of those systems .
but let 's step back for a moment and focus on the countries that actually started pisa , and i 'm giving them a colored bubble now .
and i 'm making the size of the bubble proportional to the amount of money that countries spent on students .
if money would tell you everything about the quality of learning outcomes , you would find all the large bubbles at the top , no ?
but that 's not what you see .
spending per student only explains about , well , less than 20 percent of the performance variation among countries , and luxembourg , for example , the most expensive system , does n't do particularly well .
what you see is that two countries with similar spending achieve very different results .
you also see -- and i think that 's one of the most encouraging findings -- that we no longer live in a world that is neatly divided between rich and well - educated countries , and poor and badly - educated ones , a very , very important lesson .
let 's look at this in greater detail .
the red dot shows you spending per student relative to a country 's wealth .
one way you can spend money is by paying teachers well , and you can see korea investing a lot in attracting the best people into the teaching profession .
and korea also invests into long school days , which drives up costs further .
last but not least , koreans want their teachers not only to teach but also to develop .
they invest in professional development and collaboration and many other things .
all that costs money .
how can korea afford all of this ?
the answer is , students in korea learn in large classes .
this is the blue bar which is driving costs down .
you go to the next country on the list , luxembourg , and you can see the red dot is exactly where it is for korea , so luxembourg spends the same per student as korea does .
but , you know , parents and teachers and policymakers in luxembourg all like small classes .
you know , it 's very pleasant to walk into a small class .
so they have invested all their money into there , and the blue bar , class size , is driving costs up .
but even luxembourg can spend its money only once , and the price for this is that teachers are not paid particularly well .
students do n't have long hours of learning .
and basically , teachers have little time to do anything else than teaching .
so you can see two countries spent their money very differently , and actually how they spent their money matters a lot more than how much they invest in education .
let 's go back to the year 2000 .
remember , that was the year before the ipod was invented .
this is how the world looked then in terms of pisa performance .
the first thing you can see is that the bubbles were a lot smaller , no ?
we spent a lot less on education , about 35 percent less on education .
so you ask yourself , if education has become so much more expensive , has it become so much better ?
and the bitter truth really is that , you know , not in many countries .
but there are some countries which have seen impressive improvements .
germany , my own country , in the year 2000 , featured in the lower quadrant , below average performance , large social disparities .
and remember , germany , we used to be one of those countries that comes out very well when you just count people who have degrees .
very disappointing results .
people were stunned by the results .
and for the very first time , the public debate in germany was dominated for months by education , not tax , not other kinds of issues , but education was the center of the public debate .
and then policymakers began to respond to this .
the federal government dramatically raised its investment in education .
a lot was done to increase the life chances of students with an immigrant background or from social disadvantage .
and what 's really interesting is that this was n't just about optimizing existing policies , but data transformed some of the beliefs and paradigms underlying german education .
for example , traditionally , the education of the very young children was seen as the business of families , and you would have cases where women were seen as neglecting their family responsibilities when they sent their children to kindergarten .
pisa has transformed that debate , and pushed early childhood education right at the center of public policy in germany .
or traditionally , the german education divides children at the age of 10 , very young children , between those deemed to pursue careers of knowledge workers and those who would end up working for the knowledge workers , and that mainly along socioeconomic lines , and that paradigm is being challenged now too .
a lot of change .
and the good news is , nine years later , you can see improvements in quality and equity .
people have taken up the challenge , done something about it .
or take korea , at the other end of the spectrum .
in the year 2000 , korea did already very well , but the koreans were concerned that only a small share of their students achieved the really high levels of excellence .
they took up the challenge , and korea was able to double the proportion of students achieving excellence in one decade in the field of reading .
well , if you only focus on your brightest students , you know what happens is disparities grow , and you can see this bubble moving slightly to the other direction , but still , an impressive improvement .
a major overhaul of poland 's education helped to dramatically reduce between variability among schools , turn around many of the lowest - performing schools , and raise performance by over half a school year .
and you can see other countries as well .
portugal was able to consolidate its fragmented school system , raise quality and improve equity , and so did hungary .
so what you can actually see , there 's been a lot of change .
and even those people who complain and say that the relative standing of countries on something like pisa is just an artifact of culture , of economic factors , of social issues , of homogeneity of societies , and so on , these people must now concede that education improvement is possible .
you know , poland has n't changed its culture .
it did n't change its economy . it did n't change the compositions of its population .
it did n't fire its teachers . it changed its education policies and practice . very impressive .
and all that raises , of course , the question : what can we learn from those countries in the green quadrant who have achieved high levels of equity , high levels of performance , and raised outcomes ?
and , of course , the question is , can what works in one context provide a model elsewhere ?
of course , you can n't copy and paste education systems wholesale , but these comparisons have identified a range of factors that high - performing systems share .
everybody agrees that education is important .
everybody says that .
but the test of truth is , how do you weigh that priority against other priorities ?
how do countries pay their teachers relative to other highly skilled workers ?
would you want your child to become a teacher rather than a lawyer ?
how do the media talk about schools and teachers ?
those are the critical questions , and what we have learned from pisa is that , in high - performing education systems , the leaders have convinced their citizens to make choices that value education , their future , more than consumption today .
and you know what 's interesting ? you won n't believe it , but there are countries in which the most attractive place to be is not the shopping center but the school .
those things really exist .
but placing a high value on education is just part of the picture .
the other part is the belief that all children are capable of success .
you have some countries where students are segregated early in their ages .
you know , students are divided up , reflecting the belief that only some children can achieve world-class standards .
but usually that is linked to very strong social disparities .
if you go to japan in asia , or finland in europe , parents and teachers in those countries expect every student to succeed , and you can see that actually mirrored in student behavior .
when we asked students what counts for success in mathematics , students in north america would typically tell us , you know , it 's all about talent .
if i 'm not born as a genius in math , i 'd better study something else .
nine out of 10 japanese students say that it depends on my own investment , on my own effort , and that tells you a lot about the system that is around them .
in the past , different students were taught in similar ways .
high performers on pisa embrace diversity with differentiated pedagogical practices .
they realize that ordinary students have extraordinary talents , and they personalize learning opportunities .
high - performing systems also share clear and ambitious standards across the entire spectrum .
every student knows what matters .
every student knows what 's required to be successful .
and nowhere does the quality of an education system exceed the quality of its teachers .
high - performing systems are very careful in how they recruit and select their teachers and how they train them .
they watch how they improve the performances of teachers in difficulties who are struggling , and how they structure teacher pay .
they provide an environment also in which teachers work together to frame good practice .
and they provide intelligent pathways for teachers to grow in their careers .
in bureaucratic school systems , teachers are often left alone in classrooms with a lot of prescription on what they should be teaching .
high - performing systems are very clear what good performance is .
they set very ambitious standards , but then they enable their teachers to figure out , what do i need to teach to my students today ?
the past was about delivered wisdom in education .
now the challenge is to enable user - generated wisdom .
high performers have moved on from professional or from administrative forms of accountability and control -- sort of , how do you check whether people do what they 're supposed to do in education -- to professional forms of work organization .
they enable their teachers to make innovations in pedagogy .
they provide them with the kind of development they need to develop stronger pedagogical practices .
the goal of the past was standardization and compliance .
high - performing systems have made teachers and school principals inventive .
in the past , the policy focus was on outcomes , on provision .
the high - performing systems have helped teachers and school principals to look outwards to the next teacher , the next school around their lives .
and the most impressive outcomes of world-class systems is that they achieve high performance across the entire system .
you 've seen finland doing so well on pisa , but what makes finland so impressive is that only five percent of the performance variation amongst students lies between schools .
every school succeeds .
this is where success is systemic .
and how do they do that ?
they invest resources where they can make the most difference .
they attract the strongest principals into the toughest schools , and the most talented teachers into the most challenging classroom .
last but not least , those countries align policies across all areas of public policy .
they make them coherent over sustained periods of time , and they ensure that what they do is consistently implemented .
now , knowing what successful systems are doing does n't yet tell us how to improve .
that 's also clear , and that 's where some of the limits of international comparisons of pisa are .
that 's where other forms of research need to kick in , and that 's also why pisa does n't venture into telling countries what they should be doing .
but its strength lies in telling them what everybody else has been doing .
and the example of pisa shows that data can be more powerful than administrative control of financial subsidy through which we usually run education systems .
you know , some people argue that changing educational administration is like moving graveyards .
you just can n't rely on the people out there to help you with this .
but pisa has shown what 's possible in education .
it has helped countries to see that improvement is possible .
it has taken away excuses from those who are complacent .
and it has helped countries to set meaningful targets in terms of measurable goals achieved by the world 's leaders .
if we can help every child , every teacher , every school , every principal , every parent see what improvement is possible , that only the sky is the limit to education improvement , we have laid the foundations for better policies and better lives .
thank you .
rachel pike : the science behind a climate headline 
 in 4 minutes , atmospheric chemist rachel pike provides a glimpse of the massive scientific effort behind the bold headlines on climate change , with her team -- one of thousands who contributed -- taking a risky flight over the rainforest in pursuit of data on a key molecule .
i 'd like to talk to you today about the scale of the scientific effort that goes into making the headlines you see in the paper .
headlines that look like this when they have to do with climate change , and headlines that look like this when they have to do with air quality or smog .
they are both two branches of the same field of atmospheric science .
recently the headlines looked like this when the intergovernmental panel on climate change , or ipcc , put out their report on the state of understanding of the atmospheric system .
that report was written by 620 scientists from 40 countries .
they wrote almost a thousand pages on the topic .
and all of those pages were reviewed by another 400 - plus scientists and reviewers , from 113 countries .
it 's a big community . it 's such a big community , in fact , that our annual gathering is the largest scientific meeting in the world .
over 15,000 scientists go to san francisco every year for that .
and every one of those scientists is in a research group , and every research group studies a wide variety of topics .
for us at cambridge , it 's as varied as the el nio oscillation , which affects weather and climate , to the assimilation of satellite data , to emissions from crops that produce biofuels , which is what i happen to study .
and in each one of these research areas , of which there are even more , there are phd students , like me , and we study incredibly narrow topics , things as narrow as a few processes or a few molecules .
and one of the molecules i study is called isoprene , which is here . it 's a small organic molecule . you 've probably never heard of it .
the weight of a paper clip is approximately equal to 900 zeta - illion -- 10 to the 21st -- molecules of isoprene .
but despite its very small weight , enough of it is emitted into the atmosphere every year to equal the weight of all the people on the planet .
it 's a huge amount of stuff . it 's equal to the weight of methane .
and because it 's so much stuff , it 's really important for the atmospheric system .
because it 's important to the atmospheric system , we go to all lengths to study this thing .
we blow it up and look at the pieces .
this is the euphore smog chamber in spain .
atmospheric explosions , or full combustion , takes about 15,000 times longer than what happens in your car .
but still , we look at the pieces .
we run enormous models on supercomputers ; this is what i happen to do .
our models have hundreds of thousands of grid boxes calculating hundreds of variables each , on minute timescales .
and it takes weeks to perform our integrations .
and we perform dozens of integrations in order to understand what 's happening .
we also fly all over the world looking for this thing .
i recently joined a field campaign in malaysia . there are others .
we found a global atmospheric watchtower there , in the middle of the rainforest , and hung hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of scientific equipment off this tower , to look for isoprene , and of course , other things while we were there .
this is the tower in the middle of the rainforest , from above .
and this is the tower from below .
and on part of that field campaign we even brought an aircraft with us .
and this plane , the model , ba146 , which was run by faam , normally flies 120 to 130 people .
so maybe you took a similar aircraft to get here today .
but we did n't just fly it . we were flying at 100 meters above the top of the canopy to measure this molecule -- incredibly dangerous stuff .
we have to fly at a special incline in order to make the measurements .
we hire military and test pilots to do the maneuvering .
we have to get special flight clearance .
and as you come around the banks in these valleys , the forces can get up to two gs .
and the scientists have to be completely harnessed in in order to make measurements while they 're on board .
so , as you can imagine , the inside of this aircraft does n't look like any plane you would take on vacation .
it 's a flying laboratory that we took to make measurements in the region of this molecule .
we do all of this to understand the chemistry of one molecule .
and when one student like me has some sort of inclination or understanding about that molecule , they write one scientific paper on the subject .
and out of that field campaign we 'll probably get a few dozen papers on a few dozen processes or molecules .
and as a body of knowledge builds up , it will form one subsection , or one sub-subsection of an assessment like the ipcc , although we have others .
and each one of the 11 chapters of the ipcc has six to ten subsections .
so you can imagine the scale of the effort .
in each one of those assessments that we write , we always tag on a summary , and the summary is written for a non-scientific audience .
and we hand that summary to journalists and policy makers , in order to make headlines like these .
thank you very much .
christopher decharms : a look inside the brain in real time 
 neuroscientist and inventor christopher decharms demonstrates a new way to use fmri to show brain activity -- thoughts , emotions , pain -- while it is happening . in other words , you can actually see how you feel .
hi . i 'm going to ask you to raise your arms and wave back , just the way i am -- kind of a royal wave .
you can mimic what you can see .
you can program the hundreds of muscles in your arm .
soon , you 'll be able to look inside your brain and program , control the hundreds of brain areas that you see there .
i 'm going to tell you about that technology .
people have wanted to look inside the human mind , the human brain , for thousands of years .
well , coming out of the research labs just now , for our generation , is the possibility to do that .
people envision this as being very difficult .
you had to take a spaceship , shrink it down , inject it into the bloodstream .
it was terribly dangerous .
you could be attacked by white blood cells in the arteries .
but now , we have a real technology to do this .
we 're going to fly into my colleague peter 's brain .
we 're going to do it non-invasively using mri .
we do n't have to inject anything . we do n't need radiation .
we will be able to fly into the anatomy of peter 's brain -- literally , fly into his body -- but more importantly , we can look into his mind .
when peter moves his arm , that yellow spot you see there is the interface to the functioning of peter 's mind taking place .
now you 've seen before that with electrodes you can control robotic arms , that brain imaging and scanners can show you the insides of brains .
what 's new is that that process has typically taken days or months of analysis .
we 've collapsed that through technology to milliseconds , and that allows us to let peter to look at his brain in real time as he 's inside the scanner .
he can look at these 65,000 points of activation per second .
if he can see this pattern in his own brain , he can learn how to control it .
there have been three ways to try to impact the brain : the therapist 's couch , pills and the knife .
this is a fourth alternative that you are soon going to have .
we all know that as we form thoughts , they form deep channels in our minds and in our brains .
chronic pain is an example . if you burn yourself , you pull your hand away .
but if you 're still in pain in six months ' or six years ' time , it 's because these circuits are producing pain that 's no longer helping you .
if we can look at the activation in the brain that 's producing the pain , we can form 3d models and watch in real time the brain process information , and then we can select the areas that produce the pain .
so put your arms back up and flex your bicep .
now imagine that you will soon be able to look inside your brain and select brain areas to do that same thing .
what you 're seeing here is , we 've selected the pathways in the brain of a chronic pain patient .
this may shock you , but we 're literally reading this person 's brain in real time .
they 're watching their own brain activation , and they 're controlling the pathway that produces their pain .
they 're learning to flex this system that releases their own endogenous opiates .
as they do it , in the upper left is a display that 's yoked to their brain activation of their own pain being controlled .
when they control their brain , they can control their pain .
this is an investigational technology , but , in clinical trials , we 're seeing a 44 to 64 percent decrease in chronic pain patients .
this is not " the matrix . " you can only do this to yourself . you take control .
i 've seen inside my brain . you will too , soon .
when you do , what do you want to control ?
you will be able to look at all the aspects that make you yourself , all your experiences .
these are some of the areas we 're working on today that i do n't have time to go into in detail .
but i want to leave with you the big question .
we are the first generation that 's going to be able to enter into , using this technology , the human mind and brain .
where will we take it ?
beeban kidron : the shared wonder of film 
 movies have the power to create a shared narrative experience and to shape memories and worldviews . british film director beeban kidron invokes iconic film scenes -- from & lt ; em & gt ; miracle in milan & lt ;/ em & gt ; to & lt ; em & gt ; boyz n the hood & lt ;/ em & gt ; -- as she shows how her group filmclub shares great films with kids .
evidence suggests that humans in all ages and from all cultures create their identity in some kind of narrative form .
from mother to daughter , preacher to congregant , teacher to pupil , storyteller to audience .
whether in cave paintings or the latest uses of the internet , human beings have always told their histories and truths through parable and fable .
we are inveterate storytellers .
but where , in our increasingly secular and fragmented world , do we offer communality of experience , unmediated by our own furious consumerism ?
and what narrative , what history , what identity , what moral code are we imparting to our young ?
cinema is arguably the 20th century 's most influential art form .
its artists told stories across national boundaries , in as many languages , genres and philosophies as one can imagine .
indeed , it is hard to find a subject that film has yet to tackle .
during the last decade we 've seen a vast integration of global media , now dominated by a culture of the hollywood blockbuster .
we are increasingly offered a diet in which sensation , not story , is king .
what was common to us all 40 years ago -- the telling of stories between generations -- is now rarified .
as a filmmaker , it worried me .
as a human being , it puts the fear of god in me .
what future could the young build with so little grasp of where they 've come from and so few narratives of what 's possible ?
the irony is palpable ; technical access has never been greater , cultural access never weaker .
and so in 2006 we set up filmclub , an organization that ran weekly film screenings in schools followed by discussions .
if we could raid the annals of 100 years of film , maybe we could build a narrative that would deliver meaning to the fragmented and restless world of the young .
given the access to technology , even a school in a tiny rural hamlet could project a dvd onto a white board .
in the first nine months we ran 25 clubs across the u.k. , with kids in age groups between five and 18 watching a film uninterrupted for 90 minutes .
the films were curated and contextualized .
but the choice was theirs , and our audience quickly grew to choose the richest and most varied diet that we could provide .
the outcome , immediate .
it was an education of the most profound and transformative kind .
in groups as large as 150 and as small as three , these young people discovered new places , new thoughts , new perspectives .
by the time the pilot had finished , we had the names of a thousand schools that wished to join .
the film that changed my life is a 1951 film by vittorio de sica , " miracle in milan . "
it 's a remarkable comment on slums , poverty and aspiration .
i had seen the film on the occasion of my father 's 50th birthday .
technology then meant we had to hire a viewing cinema , find and pay for the print and the projectionist .
but for my father , the emotional and artistic importance of de sica 's vision was so great that he chose to celebrate his half - century with his three teenage children and 30 of their friends , " in order , " he said , " to pass the baton of concern and hope on to the next generation . "
in the last shot of " miracle in milan , " slum - dwellers float skyward on flying brooms .
sixty years after the film was made and 30 years after i first saw it , i see young faces tilt up in awe , their incredulity matching mine .
and the speed with which they associate it with " slumdog millionaire " or the favelas in rio speaks to the enduring nature .
in a filmclub season about democracy and government , we screened " mr. smith goes to washington . "
made in 1939 , the film is older than most of our members ' grandparents .
frank capra 's classic values independence and propriety .
it shows how to do right , how to be heroically awkward .
it is also an expression of faith in the political machine as a force of honor .
shortly after " mr. smith " became a filmclub classic , there was a week of all - night filibustering in the house of lords .
and it was with great delight that we found young people up and down the country explaining with authority what filibustering was and why the lords might defy their bedtime on a point of principle .
after all , jimmy stewart filibustered for two entire reels .
in choosing " hotel rwanda , " they explored genocide of the most brutal kind .
it provoked tears as well as incisive questions about unarmed peace - keeping forces and the double - dealing of a western society that picks its moral fights with commodities in mind .
and when " schindler 's list " demanded that they never forget , one child , full of the pain of consciousness , remarked , " we already forgot , otherwise how did ' hotel rwanda ' happen ? "
as they watch more films their lives got palpably richer .
" pickpocket " started a debate about criminality disenfranchisement .
" to sir , with love " ignited its teen audience .
they celebrated a change in attitude towards non-white britons , but railed against our restless school system that does not value collective identity , unlike that offered by sidney poitier 's careful tutelage .
by now , these thoughtful , opinionated , curious young people thought nothing of tackling films of all forms -- black and white , subtitled , documentary , non-narrative , fantasy -- and thought nothing of writing detailed reviews that competed to favor one film over another in passionate and increasingly sophisticated prose .
six thousand reviews each school week vying for the honor of being review of the week .
from 25 clubs , we became hundreds , then thousands , until we were nearly a quarter of a million kids in 7,000 clubs right across the country .
and although the numbers were , and continue to be , extraordinary , what became more extraordinary was how the experience of critical and curious questioning translated into life .
some of our kids started talking with their parents , others with their teachers , or with their friends .
and those without friends started making them .
the films provided communality across all manner of divide .
and the stories they held provided a shared experience .
" persepolis " brought a daughter closer to her iranian mother , and " jaws " became the way in which one young boy was able to articulate the fear he 'd experienced in flight from violence that killed first his father then his mother , the latter thrown overboard on a boat journey .
who was right , who wrong ?
what would they do under the same conditions ?
was the tale told well ?
was there a hidden message ?
how has the world changed ? how could it be different ?
a tsunami of questions flew out of the mouths of children who the world did n't think were interested .
and they themselves had not known they cared .
and as they wrote and debated , rather than seeing the films as artifacts , they began to see themselves .
i have an aunt who is a wonderful storyteller .
in a moment she can invoke images of running barefoot on table mountain and playing cops and robbers .
quite recently she told me that in 1948 , two of her sisters and my father traveled on a boat to israel without my grandparents .
when the sailors mutinied at sea in a demand for humane conditions , it was these teenagers that fed the crew .
i was past 40 when my father died .
he never mentioned that journey .
my mother 's mother left europe in a hurry without her husband , but with her three - year - old daughter and diamonds sewn into the hem of her skirt .
after two years in hiding , my grandfather appeared in london .
he was never right again .
and his story was hushed as he assimilated .
my story started in england with a clean slate and the silence of immigrant parents .
i had " anne frank , " " the great escape , " " shoah , " " triumph of the will . "
it was leni riefenstahl in her elegant nazi propaganda who gave context to what the family had to endure .
these films held what was too hurtful to say out loud , and they became more useful to me than the whispers of survivors and the occasional glimpse of a tattoo on a maiden aunt 's wrist .
purists may feel that fiction dissipates the quest of real human understanding , that film is too crude to tell a complex and detailed history , or that filmmakers always serve drama over truth .
but within the reels lie purpose and meaning .
as one 12 - year - old said after watching " wizard of oz , " " every person should watch this , because unless you do you may not know that you too have a heart . "
we honor reading , why not honor watching with the same passion ?
consider " citizen kane " as valuable as jane austen .
agree that " boyz n the hood , " like tennyson , offers an emotional landscape and a heightened understanding that work together .
each a piece of memorable art , each a brick in the wall of who we are .
and it 's okay if we remember tom hanks better than astronaut jim lovell or have ben kingsley 's face superimposed onto that of gandhi 's .
and though not real , eve harrington , howard beale , mildred pierce are an opportunity to discover what it is to be human , and no less helpful to understanding our life and times as shakespeare is in illuminating the world of elizabethan england .
we guessed that film , whose stories are a meeting place of drama , music , literature and human experience , would engage and inspire the young people participating in filmclub .
what we could not have foreseen was the measurable improvements in behavior , confidence and academic achievement .
once - reluctant students now race to school , talk to their teachers , fight , not on the playground , but to choose next week 's film -- young people who have found self-definition , ambition and an appetite for education and social engagement from the stories they have witnessed .
our members defy the binary description of how we so often describe our young .
they are neither feral nor myopically self-absorbed .
they are , like other young people , negotiating a world with infinite choice , but little culture of how to find meaningful experience .
we appeared surprised at the behaviors of those who define themselves by the size of the tick on their shoes , yet acquisition has been the narrative we have offered .
if we want different values we have to tell a different story , a story that understands that an individual narrative is an essential component of a person 's identity , that a collective narrative is an essential component of a cultural identity , and without it it is impossible to imagine yourself as part of a group .
because when these people get home after a screening of " rear window " and raise their gaze to the building next door , they have the tools to wonder who , apart from them , is out there and what is their story .
thank you .
ellen jorgensen : biohacking -- you can do it , too 
 we have personal computing , why not personal biotech ? that 's the question biologist ellen jorgensen and her colleagues asked themselves before opening genspace , a nonprofit diybio lab in brooklyn devoted to citizen science , where amateurs can go and tinker with biotechnology . far from being a sinister frankenstein 's lab , genspace offers a long list of fun , creative and practical uses for diybio .
it 's a great time to be a molecular biologist .
reading and writing dna code is getting easier and cheaper .
by the end of this year , we 'll be able to sequence the three million bits of information in your genome in less than a day and for less than 1,000 euros .
biotech is probably the most powerful and the fastest - growing technology sector .
it has the power , potentially , to replace our fossil fuels , to revolutionize medicine , and to touch every aspect of our daily lives .
so who gets to do it ?
i think we 'd all be pretty comfortable with this guy doing it .
but what about that guy ?
in 2009 , i first heard about diybio .
it 's a movement that -- it advocates making biotechnology accessible to everyone , not just scientists and people in government labs .
the idea is that if you open up the science and you allow diverse groups to participate , it could really stimulate innovation .
putting technology in the hands of the end user is usually a good idea because they 've got the best idea of what their needs are .
and here 's this really sophisticated technology coming down the road , all these associated social , moral , ethical questions , and we scientists are just lousy at explaining to the public just exactly what it is we 're doing in those labs .
so would n't it be nice if there was a place in your local neighborhood where you could go and learn about this stuff , do it hands - on ?
i thought so .
so , three years ago , i got together with some friends of mine who had similar aspirations and we founded genspace .
it 's a nonprofit , a community biotech lab in brooklyn , new york , and the idea was people could come , they could take classes and putter around in the lab in a very open , friendly atmosphere .
none of my previous experience prepared me for what came next . can you guess ?
the press started calling us .
and the more we talked about how great it was to increase science literacy , the more they wanted to talk about us creating the next frankenstein , and as a result , for the next six months , when you googled my name , instead of getting my scientific papers , you got this .
[ " am i a biohazard ? " ] it was pretty depressing .
the only thing that got us through that period was that we knew that all over the world , there were other people that were trying to do the same thing that we were .
they were opening biohacker spaces , and some of them were facing much greater challenges than we did , more regulations , less resources .
but now , three years later , here 's where we stand .
it 's a vibrant , global community of hackerspaces , and this is just the beginning .
these are some of the biggest ones , and there are others opening every day .
there 's one probably going to open up in moscow , one in south korea , and the cool thing is they each have their own individual flavor that grew out of the community they came out of .
let me take you on a little tour .
biohackers work alone .
we work in groups , in big cities   and in small villages .
we reverse engineer lab equipment .
we genetically engineer bacteria .
we hack hardware , software , wetware , and , of course , the code of life .
we like to build things .
then we like to take things apart .
we make things grow .
we make things glow .
and we make cells dance .
the spirit of these labs , it 's open , it 's positive , but , you know , sometimes when people think of us , the first thing that comes to mind is bio - safety , bio - security , all the dark side stuff .
i 'm not going to minimize those concerns .
any powerful technology is inherently dual use , and , you know , you get something like synthetic biology , nanobiotechnology , it really compels you , you have to look at both the amateur groups but also the professional groups , because they have better infrastructure , they have better facilities , and they have access to pathogens .
so the united nations did just that , and they recently issued a report on this whole area , and what they concluded was the power of this technology for positive was much greater than the risk for negative , and they even looked specifically at the diybio community , and they noted , not surprisingly , that the press had a tendency to consistently overestimate our capabilities and underestimate our ethics .
as a matter of fact , diy people from all over the world , america , europe , got together last year , and we hammered out a common code of ethics .
that 's a lot more than conventional science has done .
now , we follow state and local regulations .
we dispose of our waste properly , we follow safety procedures , we do n't work with pathogens .
you know , if you 're working with a pathogen , you 're not part of the biohacker community , you 're part of the bioterrorist community , i 'm sorry .
and sometimes people ask me , " well , what about an accident ? "
well , working with the safe organisms that we normally work with , the chance of an accident happening with somebody accidentally creating , like , some sort of superbug , that 's literally about as probable as a snowstorm in the middle of the sahara desert .
now , it could happen , but i 'm not going to plan my life around it .
i 've actually chosen to take a different kind of risk .
i signed up for something called the personal genome project .
it 's a study at harvard where , at the end of the study , they 're going to take my entire genomic sequence , all of my medical information , and my identity , and they 're going to post it online for everyone to see .
there were a lot of risks involved that they talked about during the informed consent portion .
the one i liked the best is , someone could download my sequence , go back to the lab , synthesize some fake ellen dna , and plant it at a crime scene .
but like diybio , the positive outcomes and the potential for good for a study like that far outweighs the risk .
now , you might be asking yourself , " well , you know , what would i do in a biolab ? "
well , it was n't that long ago we were asking , " well , what would anyone do with a personal computer ? "
so this stuff is just beginning .
we 're only seeing just the tip of the dna iceberg .
let me show you what you could do right now .
a biohacker in germany , a journalist , wanted to know whose dog was leaving little presents on his street ?
yep , you guessed it . he threw tennis balls to all the neighborhood dogs , analyzed the saliva , identified the dog , and confronted the dog owner .
i discovered an invasive species in my own backyard .
looked like a ladybug , right ?
it actually is a japanese beetle .
and the same kind of technology -- it 's called dna barcoding , it 's really cool -- you can use it to check if your caviar is really beluga , if that sushi is really tuna , or if that goat cheese that you paid so much for is really goat 's .
in a biohacker space , you can analyze your genome for mutations .
you can analyze your breakfast cereal for gmo 's , and you can explore your ancestry .
you can send weather balloons up into the stratosphere , collect microbes , see what 's up there .
you can make a biocensor out of yeast to detect pollutants in water .
you can make some sort of a biofuel cell .
you can do a lot of things .
you can also do an art science project . some of these are really spectacular , and they look at social , ecological problems from a completely different perspective .
it 's really cool .
some people ask me , well , why am i involved ?
i could have a perfectly good career in mainstream science .
the thing is , there 's something in these labs that they have to offer society that you can n't find anywhere else .
there 's something sacred about a space where you can work on a project , and you do n't have to justify to anyone that it 's going to make a lot of money , that it 's going to save mankind , or even that it 's feasible .
it just has to follow safety guidelines .
if you had spaces like this all over the world , it could really change the perception of who 's allowed to do biotech .
it 's spaces like these that spawned personal computing .
why not personal biotech ?
if everyone in this room got involved , who knows what we could do ?
this is such a new area , and as we say back in brooklyn , you ai n't seen nothin ' yet .
geert chatrou : a whistleblower you have n't heard 
 in this engaging talk , world champion whistler geert chatrou performs the whimsical " eleonora " by a . honhoff , and his own " fte de la belle . " in a fascinating interlude , he talks about what brought him to the craft . & lt ; em & gt ;& lt ;/ em & gt ;
thank you .
thank you very much .
that was whistling .
i 'm trying to do this in english .
what is a chubby , curly - haired guy from holland -- why is he whistling ?
well actually , i 've [ been ] whistling since the age of four , about four .
my dad was always whistling around the house , and i just thought that 's part of communication in my family .
so i whistled along with him .
and actually , till i was 34 , i always annoyed and irritated people with whistling , because , to be honest , my whistling is a kind of deviant behavior .
i whistled alone . i whistled in the classroom .
i whistled on [ my ] bike . i whistled everywhere .
and i also whistled at a christmas eve party with my family - in - law .
and they had some , in my opinion , terrible christmas music .
and when i hear music that i do n't like , i try to make it better .
so " rudolph the red - nosed reindeer " -- you know it ?
but it can also sound like this .
but during a christmas party -- at dinner actually -- it 's very annoying .
so my sister - in - law asked me a few times , " please stop whistling . "
and i just could n't .
and at one point -- and i had some wine , i have to admit that -- at one point i said , " if there was a contest , i would join . "
and two weeks later i received a text message : " you 're going to america . "
so , okay , i 'm going to america .
i would love to , but why ?
so i immediately called her up , of course .
she googled , and she found this world whistling championship in america , of course .
she did n't expect me to go there .
and i would have lost my face .
i do n't know if that 's correct english .
but the dutch people here will understand what i mean .
i lost my face .
and she thought , " he will never go there . "
but actually i did .
so i went to louisburg , north carolina , southeast united states , and i entered the world of whistling .
and i also entered the world championship , and i won there in 2004 .
that was great fun , of course .
and to defend my title -- like judokas do and sportsmen -- i thought , well let 's go back in 2005 , and i won again .
then i could n't participate for a few years .
and in 2008 i entered again in japan , tokyo , and i won again .
so what happened now is i 'm standing here in rotterdam , in the beautiful city , on a big stage , and i 'm talking about whistling .
and actually i earn my money whistling at the moment .
so i quit my day job as a nurse .
and i try to live my dream -- well , actually , it was never my dream , but it sounds so good .
okay , i 'm not the only one whistling here .
you say , " huh , what do you mean ? "
well actually , you are going to whistle along .
and then always the same thing happens : people are watching each other and think , " oh , my god .
why ? can i go away ? "
no , you can n't .
actually it 's very simple .
the track that i will whistle is called " fte de la belle . "
it 's about 80 minutes long .
no , no , no . it 's four minutes long .
and i want to first rehearse with you your whistling .
so i whistle the tone .
sorry . i forgot one thing .
you whistle the same tone as me .
i heard a wide variety of tones .
this is very promising .
this is very promising .
i 'll ask the technicians to start the music .
and if it 's started , i just point where you whistle along , and we will see what happens .
oh , hah .
i 'm so sorry , technicians .
i 'm so used to that .
i start it myself .
okay , here it is .
okay .
it 's easy , is n't it ?
now comes the solo . i propose i do that myself .
max westerman : geert chatrou , the world champion [ of ] whistling .
geert chatrou : thank you . thank you .
mark shaw : one very dry demo 
 mark shaw demos ultra - ever dry , a liquid - repellent coating that acts as an astonishingly powerful shield against water and water - based materials . at the nano level , the spray covers a surface with an umbrella of air so that water bounces right off . watch for an exciting two - minute kicker .
i 'm here to show you how something you can n't see can be so much fun to look at .
you 're about to experience a new , available and exciting technology that 's going to make us rethink how we waterproof our lives .
what i have here is a cinder block that we 've coated half with a nanotechnology spray that can be applied to almost any material .
it 's called ultra - ever dry , and when you apply it to any material , it turns into a superhydrophobic shield .
so this is a cinder block , uncoated , and you can see that it 's porous , it absorbs water .
not anymore .
porous , nonporous .
so what 's superhydrophobic ?
superhydrophobic is how we measure a drop of water on a surface .
the rounder it is , the more hydrophobic it is , and if it 's really round , it 's superhydrophobic .
a freshly waxed car , the water molecules slump to about 90 degrees .
a windshield coating is going to give you about 110 degrees .
but what you 're seeing here is 160 to 175 degrees , and anything over 150 is superhydrophobic .
so as part of the demonstration , what i have is a pair of gloves , and we 've coated one of the gloves with the nanotechnology coating , and let 's see if you can tell which one , and i 'll give you a hint .
did you guess the one that was dry ?
when you have nanotechnology and nanoscience , what 's occurred is that we 're able to now look at atoms and molecules and actually control them for great benefits .
and we 're talking really small here .
the way you measure nanotechnology is in nanometers , and one nanometer is a billionth of a meter , and to put some scale to that , if you had a nanoparticle that was one nanometer thick , and you put it side by side , and you had 50,000 of them , you 'd be the width of a human hair .
so very small , but very useful .
and it 's not just water that this works with .
it 's a lot of water - based materials like concrete , water - based paint , mud , and also some refined oils as well .
you can see the difference .
moving onto the next demonstration , we 've taken a pane of glass and we 've coated the outside of it , we 've framed it with the nanotechnology coating , and we 're going to pour this green - tinted water inside the middle , and you 're going to see , it 's going to spread out on glass like you 'd normally think it would , except when it hits the coating , it stops , and i can n't even coax it to leave .
it 's that afraid of the water .
so what 's going on here ? what 's happening ?
well , the surface of the spray coating is actually filled with nanoparticles that form a very rough and craggly surface .
you 'd think it 'd be smooth , but it 's actually not .
and it has billions of interstitial spaces , and those spaces , along with the nanoparticles , reach up and grab the air molecules , and cover the surface with air .
it 's an umbrella of air all across it , and that layer of air is what the water hits , the mud hits , the concrete hits , and it glides right off .
so if i put this inside this water here , you can see a silver reflective coating around it , and that silver reflective coating is the layer of air that 's protecting the water from touching the paddle , and it 's dry .
so what are the applications ?
i mean , many of you right now are probably going through your head .
everyone that sees this gets excited , and says , " oh , i could use it for this and this and this . "
the applications in a general sense could be anything that 's anti-wetting .
we 've certainly seen that today .
it could be anything that 's anti-icing , because if you do n't have water , you do n't have ice .
it could be anti-corrosion .
no water , no corrosion .
it could be anti-bacterial .
without water , the bacteria won n't survive .
and it could be things that need to be self-cleaning as well .
so imagine how something like this could help revolutionize your field of work .
and i 'm going to leave you with one last demonstration , but before i do that , i would like to say thank you , and think small .
it 's going to happen . wait for it . wait for it .
you guys did n't hear about us cutting out the design from ted ?
[ two minutes later ... ] he ran into all sorts of problems in terms of managing the medical research part .
it 's happening !
dan ariely : our buggy moral code 
 behavioral economist dan ariely studies the bugs in our moral code : the hidden reasons we think it 's ok to cheat or steal . clever studies help make his point that we 're predictably irrational -- and can be influenced in ways we can n't grasp .
i want to talk to you today a little bit about predictable irrationality .
and my interest in irrational behavior started many years ago in the hospital .
i was burned very badly .
and if you spend a lot of time in hospital , you 'll see a lot of types of irrationalities .
and the one that particularly bothered me in the burn department was the process by which the nurses took the bandage off me .
now , you must have all taken a band - aid off at some point , and you must have wondered what 's the right approach .
do you rip it off quickly -- short duration but high intensity -- or do you take your band - aid off slowly -- you take a long time , but each second is not as painful -- which one of those is the right approach ?
the nurses in my department thought that the right approach was the ripping one , so they would grab hold and they would rip , and they would grab hold and they would rip .
and because i had 70 percent of my body burned , it would take about an hour .
and as you can imagine , i hated that moment of ripping with incredible intensity .
and i would try to reason with them and say , " why do n't we try something else ?
why do n't we take it a little longer -- maybe two hours instead of an hour -- and have less of this intensity ? "
and the nurses told me two things .
they told me that they had the right model of the patient -- that they knew what was the right thing to do to minimize my pain -- and they also told me that the word patient does n't mean to make suggestions or to interfere or ...
this is not just in hebrew , by the way .
it 's in every language i 've had experience with so far .
and , you know , there 's not much -- there was n't much i could do , and they kept on doing what they were doing .
and about three years later , when i left the hospital , i started studying at the university .
and one of the most interesting lessons i learned was that there is an experimental method that if you have a question you can create a replica of this question in some abstract way , and you can try to examine this question , maybe learn something about the world .
so that 's what i did .
i was still interested in this question of how do you take bandages off burn patients .
so originally i did n't have much money , so i went to a hardware store and i bought a carpenter 's vice .
and i would bring people to the lab and i would put their finger in it , and i would crunch it a little bit .
and i would crunch it for long periods and short periods , and pain that went up and pain that went down , and with breaks and without breaks -- all kinds of versions of pain .
and when i finished hurting people a little bit , i would ask them , so , how painful was this ? or , how painful was this ?
or , if you had to choose between the last two , which one would you choose ?
i kept on doing this for a while .
and then , like all good academic projects , i got more funding .
i moved to sounds , electrical shocks -- i even had a pain suit that i could get people to feel much more pain .
but at the end of this process , what i learned was that the nurses were wrong .
here were wonderful people with good intentions and plenty of experience , and nevertheless they were getting things wrong predictably all the time .
it turns out that because we do n't encode duration in the way that we encode intensity , i would have had less pain if the duration would have been longer and the intensity was lower .
it turns out it would have been better to start with my face , which was much more painful , and move toward my legs , giving me a trend of improvement over time -- that would have been also less painful .
and it also turns out that it would have been good to give me breaks in the middle to kind of recuperate from the pain .
all of these would have been great things to do , and my nurses had no idea .
and from that point on i started thinking , are the nurses the only people in the world who get things wrong in this particular decision , or is it a more general case ?
and it turns out it 's a more general case -- there 's a lot of mistakes we do .
and i want to give you one example of one of these irrationalities , and i want to talk to you about cheating .
and the reason i picked cheating is because it 's interesting , but also it tells us something , i think , about the stock market situation we 're in .
so , my interest in cheating started when enron came on the scene , exploded all of a sudden , and i started thinking about what is happening here .
is it the case that there was kind of a few apples who are capable of doing these things , or are we talking a more endemic situation , that many people are actually capable of behaving this way ?
so , like we usually do , i decided to do a simple experiment .
and here 's how it went .
if you were in the experiment , i would pass you a sheet of paper with 20 simple math problems that everybody could solve , but i would n't give you enough time .
when the five minutes were over , i would say , " pass me the sheets of paper , and i 'll pay you a dollar per question . "
people did this . i would pay people four dollars for their task -- on average people would solve four problems .
other people i would tempt to cheat .
i would pass their sheet of paper .
when the five minutes were over , i would say , " please shred the piece of paper .
put the little pieces in your pocket or in your backpack , and tell me how many questions you got correctly . "
people now solved seven questions on average .
now , it was n't as if there was a few bad apples -- a few people cheated a lot .
instead , what we saw is a lot of people who cheat a little bit .
now , in economic theory , cheating is a very simple cost - benefit analysis .
you say , what 's the probability of being caught ?
how much do i stand to gain from cheating ?
and how much punishment would i get if i get caught ?
and you weigh these options out -- you do the simple cost - benefit analysis , and you decide whether it 's worthwhile to commit the crime or not .
so , we try to test this .
for some people , we varied how much money they could get away with -- how much money they could steal .
we paid them 10 cents per correct question , 50 cents , a dollar , five dollars , 10 dollars per correct question .
you would expect that as the amount of money on the table increases , people would cheat more , but in fact it was n't the case .
we got a lot of people cheating by stealing by a little bit .
what about the probability of being caught ?
some people shredded half the sheet of paper , so there was some evidence left .
some people shredded the whole sheet of paper .
some people shredded everything , went out of the room , and paid themselves from the bowl of money that had over 100 dollars .
you would expect that as the probability of being caught goes down , people would cheat more , but again , this was not the case .
again , a lot of people cheated by just by a little bit , and they were insensitive to these economic incentives .
so we said , " if people are not sensitive to the economic rational theory explanations , to these forces , what could be going on ? "
and we thought maybe what is happening is that there are two forces .
at one hand , we all want to look at ourselves in the mirror and feel good about ourselves , so we do n't want to cheat .
on the other hand , we can cheat a little bit , and still feel good about ourselves .
so , maybe what is happening is that there 's a level of cheating we can n't go over , but we can still benefit from cheating at a low degree , as long as it does n't change our impressions about ourselves .
we call this like a personal fudge factor .
now , how would you test a personal fudge factor ?
initially we said , what can we do to shrink the fudge factor ?
so , we got people to the lab , and we said , " we have two tasks for you today . "
first , we asked half the people to recall either 10 books they read in high school , or to recall the ten commandments , and then we tempted them with cheating .
turns out the people who tried to recall the ten commandments -- and in our sample nobody could recall all of the ten commandments -- but those people who tried to recall the ten commandments , given the opportunity to cheat , did not cheat at all .
it was n't that the more religious people -- the people who remembered more of the commandments -- cheated less , and the less religious people -- the people who could n't remember almost any commandments -- cheated more .
the moment people thought about trying to recall the ten commandments , they stopped cheating .
in fact , even when we gave self-declared atheists the task of swearing on the bible and we give them a chance to cheat , they do n't cheat at all .
now , ten commandments is something that is hard to bring into the education system , so we said , " why do n't we get people to sign the honor code ? "
so , we got people to sign , " i understand that this short survey falls under the mit honor code . "
then they shredded it . no cheating whatsoever .
and this is particularly interesting , because mit does n't have an honor code .
so , all this was about decreasing the fudge factor .
what about increasing the fudge factor ?
the first experiment -- i walked around mit and i distributed six - packs of cokes in the refrigerators -- these were common refrigerators for the undergrads .
and i came back to measure what we technically call the half - lifetime of coke -- how long does it last in the refrigerators ?
as you can expect it does n't last very long ; people take it .
in contrast , i took a plate with six one - dollar bills , and i left those plates in the same refrigerators .
no bill ever disappeared .
now , this is not a good social science experiment , so to do it better i did the same experiment as i described to you before .
a third of the people we passed the sheet , they gave it back to us .
a third of the people we passed it to , they shredded it , they came to us and said , " mr. experimenter , i solved x problems . give me x dollars . "
a third of the people , when they finished shredding the piece of paper , they came to us and said , " mr experimenter , i solved x problems . give me x tokens . "
we did not pay them with dollars ; we paid them with something else .
and then they took the something else , they walked 12 feet to the side , and exchanged it for dollars .
think about the following intuition .
how bad would you feel about taking a pencil from work home , compared to how bad would you feel about taking 10 cents from a petty cash box ?
these things feel very differently .
would being a step removed from cash for a few seconds by being paid by token make a difference ?
our subjects doubled their cheating .
i 'll tell you what i think about this and the stock market in a minute .
but this did not solve the big problem i had with enron yet , because in enron , there 's also a social element .
people see each other behaving .
in fact , every day when we open the news we see examples of people cheating .
what does this cause us ?
so , we did another experiment .
we got a big group of students to be in the experiment , and we prepaid them .
so everybody got an envelope with all the money for the experiment , and we told them that at the end , we asked them to pay us back the money they did n't make . ok ?
the same thing happens .
when we give people the opportunity to cheat , they cheat .
they cheat just by a little bit , all the same .
but in this experiment we also hired an acting student .
this acting student stood up after 30 seconds , and said , " i solved everything . what do i do now ? "
and the experimenter said , " if you 've finished everything , go home .
that 's it . the task is finished . "
so , now we had a student -- an acting student -- that was a part of the group .
nobody knew it was an actor .
and they clearly cheated in a very , very serious way .
what would happen to the other people in the group ?
will they cheat more , or will they cheat less ?
here is what happens .
it turns out it depends on what kind of sweatshirt they 're wearing .
here is the thing .
we ran this at carnegie mellon and pittsburgh .
and at pittsburgh there are two big universities , carnegie mellon and university of pittsburgh .
all of the subjects sitting in the experiment were carnegie mellon students .
when the actor who was getting up was a carnegie mellon student -- he was actually a carnegie mellon student -- but he was a part of their group , cheating went up .
but when he actually had a university of pittsburgh sweatshirt , cheating went down .
now , this is important , because remember , when the moment the student stood up , it made it clear to everybody that they could get away with cheating , because the experimenter said , " you 've finished everything . go home , " and they went with the money .
so it was n't so much about the probability of being caught again .
it was about the norms for cheating .
if somebody from our in - group cheats and we see them cheating , we feel it 's more appropriate , as a group , to behave this way .
but if it 's somebody from another group , these terrible people -- i mean , not terrible in this -- but somebody we do n't want to associate ourselves with , from another university , another group , all of a sudden people 's awareness of honesty goes up -- a little bit like the ten commandments experiment -- and people cheat even less .
so , what have we learned from this about cheating ?
we 've learned that a lot of people can cheat .
they cheat just by a little bit .
when we remind people about their morality , they cheat less .
when we get bigger distance from cheating , from the object of money , for example , people cheat more .
and when we see cheating around us , particularly if it 's a part of our in - group , cheating goes up .
now , if we think about this in terms of the stock market , think about what happens .
what happens in a situation when you create something where you pay people a lot of money to see reality in a slightly distorted way ?
would they not be able to see it this way ?
of course they would .
what happens when you do other things , like you remove things from money ?
you call them stock , or stock options , derivatives , mortgage - backed securities .
could it be that with those more distant things , it 's not a token for one second , it 's something that is many steps removed from money for a much longer time -- could it be that people will cheat even more ?
and what happens to the social environment when people see other people behave around them ?
i think all of those forces worked in a very bad way in the stock market .
more generally , i want to tell you something about behavioral economics .
we have many intuitions in our life , and the point is that many of these intuitions are wrong .
the question is , are we going to test those intuitions ?
we can think about how we 're going to test this intuition in our private life , in our business life , and most particularly when it goes to policy , when we think about things like no child left behind , when you create new stock markets , when you create other policies -- taxation , health care and so on .
and the difficulty of testing our intuition was the big lesson i learned when i went back to the nurses to talk to them .
so i went back to talk to them and tell them what i found out about removing bandages .
and i learned two interesting things .
one was that my favorite nurse , ettie , told me that i did not take her pain into consideration .
she said , " of course , you know , it was very painful for you .
but think about me as a nurse , taking , removing the bandages of somebody i liked , and had to do it repeatedly over a long period of time .
creating so much torture was not something that was good for me , too . "
and she said maybe part of the reason was it was difficult for her .
but it was actually more interesting than that , because she said , " i did not think that your intuition was right .
i felt my intuition was correct . "
so , if you think about all of your intuitions , it 's very hard to believe that your intuition is wrong .
and she said , " given the fact that i thought my intuition was right ... " -- she thought her intuition was right -- it was very difficult for her to accept doing a difficult experiment to try and check whether she was wrong .
but in fact , this is the situation we 're all in all the time .
we have very strong intuitions about all kinds of things -- our own ability , how the economy works , how we should pay school teachers .
but unless we start testing those intuitions , we 're not going to do better .
and just think about how better my life would have been if these nurses would have been willing to check their intuition , and how everything would have been better if we just start doing more systematic experimentation of our intuitions .
thank you very much .
timothy bartik : the economic case for preschool 
 in this well - argued talk , timothy bartik makes the macro - economic case for preschool education -- and explains why you should be happy to invest in it , even if you do n't have kids that age . the economic benefits of well - educated kids , it turns out , go well beyond the altruistic . 
in this talk today , i want to present a different idea for why investing in early childhood education makes sense as a public investment .
it 's a different idea , because usually , when people talk about early childhood programs , they talk about all the wonderful benefits for participants in terms of former participants , in preschool , they have better k - 12 test scores , better adult earnings .
now that 's all very important , but what i want to talk about is what preschool does for state economies and for promoting state economic development .
and that 's actually crucial because if we 're going to get increased investment in early childhood programs , we need to interest state governments in this .
the federal government has a lot on its plate , and state governments are going to have to step up .
so we have to appeal to them , the legislators in the state government , and turn to something they understand , that they have to promote the economic development of their state economy .
now , by promoting economic development , i do n't mean anything magical .
all i mean is , is that early childhood education can bring more and better jobs to a state and can thereby promote higher per capita earnings for the state 's residents .
now , i think it 's fair to say that when people think about state and local economic development , they do n't generally think first about what they 're doing about childcare and early childhood programs .
i know this . i 've spent most of my career researching these programs .
i 've talked to a lot of directors of state economic development agencies about these issues , a lot of legislators about these issues .
when legislators and others think about economic development , what they first of all think about are business tax incentives , property tax abatements , job creation tax credits , you know , there are a million of these programs all over the place .
so for example , states compete very vigorously to attract new auto plants or expanded auto plants .
they hand out all kinds of business tax breaks .
now , those programs can make sense if they in fact induce new location decisions , and the way they can make sense is , by creating more and better jobs , they raise employment rates , raise per capita earnings of state residents .
so there is a benefit to state residents that corresponds to the costs that they 're paying by paying for these business tax breaks .
my argument is essentially that early childhood programs can do exactly the same thing , create more and better jobs , but in a different way .
it 's a somewhat more indirect way .
these programs can promote more and better jobs by , you build it , you invest in high - quality preschool , it develops the skills of your local workforce if enough of them stick around , and , in turn , that higher - quality local workforce will be a key driver of creating jobs and creating higher earnings per capita in the local community .
now , let me turn to some numbers on this .
okay . if you look at the research evidence -- that 's extensive -- on how much early childhood programs affect the educational attainment , wages and skills of former participants in preschool as adults , you take those known effects , you take how many of those folks will be expected to stick around the state or local economy and not move out , and you take research on how much skills drive job creation , you will conclude , from these three separate lines of research , that for every dollar invested in early childhood programs , the per capita earnings of state residents go up by two dollars and 78 cents , so that 's a three - to - one return .
now you can get much higher returns , of up to 16 - to - one , if you include anti-crime benefits , if you include benefits to former preschool participants who move to some other state , but there 's a good reason for focusing on these three dollars because this is salient and important to state legislators and state policy makers , and it 's the states that are going to have to act .
so there is this key benefit that is relevant to state policy makers in terms of economic development .
now , one objection you often hear , or maybe you do n't hear it because people are too polite to say it , is , why should i pay more taxes to invest in other people 's children ?
what 's in it for me ?
and the trouble with that objection , it reflects a total misunderstanding of how much local economies involve everyone being interdependent .
specifically , the interdependency here is , is that there are huge spillovers of skills -- that when other people 's children get more skills , that actually increases the prosperity of everyone , including people whose skills do n't change .
so for example , numerous research studies have shown if you look at what really drives the growth rate of metropolitan areas , it 's not so much low taxes , low cost , low wages ; it 's the skills of the area . particularly , the proxy for skills that people use is percentage of college graduates in the area .
so when you look , for example , at metropolitan areas such as the boston area , minneapolis - st . paul , silicon valley , these areas are not doing well economically because they 're low - cost .
i do n't know if you ever tried to buy a house in silicon valley .
it 's not exactly a low - cost proposition .
they are growing because they have high levels of skills .
so when we invest in other people 's children , and build up those skills , we increase the overall job growth of a metro area .
as another example , if we look at what determines an individual 's wages , and we do statistical exploration of that , what determines wages , we know that the individual 's wages will depend , in part , on that individual 's education , for example whether or not they have a college degree .
one of the very interesting facts is that , in addition , we find that even once we hold constant , statistically , the effect of your own education , the education of everyone else in your metropolitan area also affects your wages .
so specifically , if you hold constant your education , you stick in percentage of college graduates in your metro area , you will find that has a significant positive effect on your wages without changing your education at all .
in fact , this effect is so strong that when someone gets a college degree , the spillover effects of this on the wages of others in the metropolitan area are actually greater than the direct effects .
so if someone gets a college degree , their lifetime earnings go up by a huge amount , over 700,000 dollars .
there 's an effect on everyone else in the metro area of driving up the percentage of college graduates in the metro area , and if you add that up -- it 's a small effect for each person , but if you add that up across all the people in the metro area , you actually get that the increase in wages for everyone else in the metropolitan area adds up to almost a million dollars .
that 's actually greater than the direct benefits of the person choosing to get education .
now , what 's going on here ?
what can explain these huge spillover effects of education ?
well , let 's think about it this way .
i can be the most skilled person in the world , but if everyone else at my firm lacks skills , my employer is going to find it more difficult to introduce new technology , new production techniques .
so as a result , my employer is going to be less productive .
they will not be able to afford to pay me as good wages .
even if everyone at my firm has good skills , if the workers at the suppliers to my firm do not have good skills , my firm is going to be less competitive competing in national and international markets .
and again , the firm that 's less competitive will not be able to pay as good wages , and then , particularly in high - tech businesses , they 're constantly stealing ideas and workers from other businesses .
so clearly the productivity of firms in silicon valley has a lot to do with the skills not only of the workers at their firm , but the workers at all the other firms in the metro area .
so as a result , if we can invest in other people 's children through preschool and other early childhood programs that are high - quality , we not only help those children , we help everyone in the metropolitan area gain in wages and we 'll have the metropolitan area gain in job growth .
another objection used sometimes here to invest in early childhood programs is concern about people moving out .
so , you know , maybe ohio 's thinking about investing in more preschool education for children in columbus , ohio , but they 're worried that these little buckeyes will , for some strange reason , decide to move to ann arbor , michigan , and become wolverines .
and maybe michigan will be thinking about investing in preschool in ann arbor , michigan , and be worried these little wolverines will end up moving to ohio and becoming buckeyes .
and so they 'll both underinvest because everyone 's going to move out .
well , the reality is , if you look at the data , americans are n't as hyper - mobile as people sometimes assume .
the data is that over 60 percent of americans spend most of their working careers in the state they were born in , over 60 percent .
that percentage does not vary much from state to state .
it does n't vary much with the state 's economy , whether it 's depressed or booming , it does n't vary much over time .
so the reality is , if you invest in kids , they will stay .
or at least , enough of them will stay that it will pay off for your state economy .
okay , so to sum up , there is a lot of research evidence that early childhood programs , if run in a high - quality way , pay off in higher adult skills .
there 's a lot of research evidence that those folks will stick around the state economy , and there 's a lot of evidence that having more workers with higher skills in your local economy pays off in higher wages and job growth for your local economy , and if you calculate the numbers for each dollar , we get about three dollars back in benefits for the state economy .
so in my opinion , the research evidence is compelling and the logic of this is compelling .
so what are the barriers to getting it done ?
well , one obvious barrier is cost .
so if you look at what it would cost if every state government invested in universal preschool at age four , full - day preschool at age four , the total annual national cost would be roughly 30 billion dollars .
so , 30 billion dollars is a lot of money .
on the other hand , if you reflect on that the u.s. 's population is over 300 million , we 're talking about an amount of money that amounts to 100 dollars per capita .
okay ? a hundred dollars per capita , per person , is something that any state government can afford to do .
it 's just a simple matter of political will to do it .
and , of course , as i mentioned , this cost has corresponding benefits .
i mentioned there 's a multiplier of about three , 2.78 , for the state economy , in terms of over 80 billion in extra earnings .
and if we want to translate that from just billions of dollars to something that might mean something , what we 're talking about is that , for the average low - income kid , that would increase earnings by about 10 percent over their whole career , just doing the preschool , not improving k - 12 or anything else after that , not doing anything with college tuition or access , just directly improving preschool , and we would get five percent higher earnings for middle - class kids .
so this is an investment that pays off in very concrete terms for a broad range of income groups in the state 's population and produces large and tangible benefits .
now , that 's one barrier .
i actually think the more profound barrier is the long - term nature of the benefits from early childhood programs .
so the argument i 'm making is , is that we 're increasing the quality of our local workforce , and thereby increasing economic development .
obviously if we have a preschool with four - year - olds , we 're not sending these kids out at age five to work in the sweatshops , right ? at least i hope not .
so we 're talking about an investment that in terms of impacts on the state economy is not going to really pay off for 15 or 20 years , and of course america is notorious for being a short term - oriented society .
now one response you can make to this , and i sometimes have done this in talks , is people can talk about , there are benefits for these programs in reducing special ed and remedial education costs , there are benefits , parents care about preschool , maybe we 'll get some migration effects from parents seeking good preschool , and i think those are true , but in some sense they 're missing the point .
ultimately , this is something we 're investing in now for the future .
and so what i want to leave you with is what i think is the ultimate question .
i mean , i 'm an economist , but this is ultimately not an economic question , it 's a moral question : are we willing , as americans , are we as a society still capable of making the political choice to sacrifice now by paying more taxes in order to improve the long - term future of not only our kids , but our community ?
are we still capable of that as a country ?
and that 's something that each and every citizen and voter needs to ask themselves .
is that something that you are still invested in , that you still believe in the notion of investment ?
that is the notion of investment .
you sacrifice now for a return later .
so i think the research evidence on the benefits of early childhood programs for the local economy is extremely strong .
however , the moral and political choice is still up to us , as citizens and as voters .
thank you very much .
tod machover + dan ellsey : inventing instruments that unlock new music 
 tod machover of mit 's media lab is devoted to extending musical expression to everyone , from virtuosos to amateurs , and in the most diverse forms , from opera to video games . he and composer dan ellsey shed light on what 's next .
the first idea i 'd like to suggest is that we all love music a great deal . it means a lot to us .
but music is even more powerful if you do n't just listen to it , but you make it yourself .
so , that 's my first idea . and we all know about the mozart effect -- the idea that 's been around for the last five to 10 years -- that just by listening to music or by playing music to your baby [ in utero ] , that it 'll raise our iq points 10 , 20 , 30 percent .
great idea , but it does n't work at all .
so , you can n't just listen to music , you have to make it somehow .
and i 'd add to that , that it 's not just making it , but everybody , each of us , everybody in the world has the power to create and be part of music in a very dynamic way , and that 's one of the main parts of my work .
so , with the mit media lab , for quite a while now , we 've been engaged in a field called active music .
what are all the possible ways that we can think of to get everybody in the middle of a musical experience , not just listening , but making music ?
and we started by making instruments for some of the world 's greatest performers -- we call these hyperinstruments -- for yo - yo ma , peter gabriel , prince , orchestras , rock bands . instruments where they 're all kinds of sensors built right into the instrument , so the instrument knows how it 's being played .
and just by changing the interpretation and the feeling , i can turn my cello into a voice , or into a whole orchestra , or into something that nobody has ever heard before .
when we started making these , i started thinking , why can n't we make wonderful instruments like that for everybody , people who are n't fantastic yo - yo mas or princes ?
so , we 've made a whole series of instruments .
one of the largest collections is called the brain opera .
it 's a whole orchestra of about 100 instruments , all designed for anybody to play using natural skill .
so , you can play a video game , drive through a piece of music , use your body gesture to control huge masses of sound , touch a special surface to make melodies , use your voice to make a whole aura .
and when we make the brain opera , we invite the public to come in , to try these instruments and then collaborate with us to help make each performance of the brain opera .
we toured that for a long time . it is now permanently in vienna , where we built a museum around it .
and that led to something which you probably do know .
guitar hero came out of our lab , and my two teenage daughters and most of the students at the mit media lab are proof that if you make the right kind of interface , people are really interested in being in the middle of a piece of music , and playing it over and over and over again .
so , the model works , but it 's only the tip of the iceberg , because my second idea is that it 's not enough just to want to make music in something like guitar hero .
and music is very fun , but it 's also transformative .
it 's very , very important .
music can change your life , more than almost anything .
it can change the way you communicate with others , it can change your body , it can change your mind . so , we 're trying to go to the next step of how you build on top of something like guitar hero .
we are very involved in education . we have a long - term project called toy symphony , where we make all kinds of instruments that are also addictive , but for little kids , so the kids will fall in love with making music , want to spend their time doing it , and then will demand to know how it works , how to make more , how to create . so , we make squeezy instruments , like these music shapers that measure the electricity in your fingers , beatbugs that let you tap in rhythms -- they gather your rhythm , and like hot potato , you send your rhythm to your friends , who then have to imitate or respond to what your doing -- and a software package called hyperscore , which lets anybody use lines and color to make quite sophisticated music . extremely easy to use , but once you use it , you can go quite deep -- music in any style . and then , by pressing a button , it turns into music notation so that live musicians can play your pieces .
we 've had good enough , really , very powerful effects with kids around the world , and now people of all ages , using hyperscore .
so , we 've gotten more and more interested in using these kinds of creative activities in a much broader context , for all kinds of people who do n't usually have the opportunity to make music .
so , one of the growing fields that we 're working on at the media lab right now is music , mind and health .
a lot of you have probably seen oliver sacks ' wonderful new book called " musicophilia " . it 's on sale in the bookstore . it 's a great book .
if you have n't seen it , it 's worth reading . he 's a pianist himself , and he details his whole career of looking at and observing incredibly powerful effects that music has had on peoples ' lives in unusual situations .
so we know , for instance , that music is almost always the last thing that people with advanced alzheimer 's can still respond to .
maybe many of you have noticed this with loved ones , you can find somebody who can n't recognize their face in the mirror , or can n't tell anyone in their family , but you can still find a shard of music that that person will jump out of the chair and start singing . and with that you can bring back parts of people 's memories and personalities .
music is the best way to restore speech to people who have lost it through strokes , movement to people with parkinson 's disease .
it 's very powerful for depression , schizophrenia , many , many things .
so , we 're working on understanding those underlying principles and then building activities which will let music really improve people 's health .
and we do this in many ways . we work with many different hospitals .
one of them is right near boston , called tewksbury hospital .
it 's a long - term state hospital , where several years ago we started working with hyperscore and patients with physical and mental disabilities .
this has become a central part of the treatment at tewksbury hospital , so everybody there clamors to work on musical activities .
it 's the activity that seems to accelerate people 's treatment the most and it also brings the entire hospital together as a kind of musical community .
i wanted to show you a quick video of some of this work before i go on .
they 're manipulating each other 's rhythms .
it 's a real experience , not only to learn how to play and listen to rhythms , but to train your musical memory and playing music in a group .
to get their hands on music , to shape it themselves , change it , to experiment with it , to make their own music .
so hyperscore lets you start from scratch very quickly .
everybody can experience music in a profound way , we just have to make different tools .
the third idea i want to share with you is that music , paradoxically , i think even more than words , is one of the very best ways we have of showing who we really are . i love giving talks , although strangely i feel more nervous giving talks than playing music .
if i were here playing cello , or playing on a synth , or sharing my music with you , i 'd be able to show things about myself that i can n't tell you in words , more personal things , perhaps deeper things .
i think that 's true for many of us , and i want to give you two examples of how music is one of the most powerful interfaces we have , from ourselves to the outside world .
the first is a really crazy project that we 're building right now , called death and the powers . and it 's a big opera , one of the larger opera projects going on in the world right now .
and it 's about a man , rich , successful , powerful , who wants to live forever .
so , he figures out a way to download himself into his environment , actually into a series of books .
so this guy wants to live forever , he downloads himself into his environment .
the main singer disappears at the beginning of the opera and the entire stage becomes the main character . it becomes his legacy .
and the opera is about what we can share , what we can pass on to others , to the people we love , and what we can n't .
every object in the opera comes alive and is a gigantic music instrument , like this chandelier . it takes up the whole stage . it looks like a chandelier , but it 's actually a robotic music instrument .
so , as you can see in this prototype , gigantic piano strings , each string is controlled with a little robotic element -- either little bows that stroke the strings , propellers that tickle the strings , acoustic signals that vibrate the strings . we also have an army of robots on stage .
these robots are the kind of the intermediary between the main character , simon powers , and his family . there are a whole series of them , kind of like a greek chorus .
they observe the action . we 've designed these square robots that we 're testing right now at mit called operabots . these operabots follow my music .
they follow the characters . they 're smart enough , we hope , not to bump into each other . they go off on their own .
and then they can also , when you snap , line up exactly the way you 'd like to .
even though they 're cubes , they actually have a lot of personality .
the largest set piece in the opera is called the system . it 's a series of books .
every single book is robotic , so they all move , they all make sound , and when you put them all together , they turn into these walls , which have the gesture and the personality of simon powers . so he 's disappeared , but the whole physical environment becomes this person .
this is how he 's chosen to represent himself .
the books also have high - packed leds on the spines . so it 's all display .
and here 's the great baritone james maddalena as he enters the system .
this is a sneak preview .
this premieres in monaco -- it 's in september 2009 . if by any chance you can n't make it , another idea with this project -- here 's this guy building his legacy through this very unusual form , through music and through the environment .
but we 're also making this available both online and in public spaces , as a way of each of us to use music and images from our lives to make our own legacy or to make a legacy of someone we love .
so instead of being grand opera , this opera will turn into what we 're thinking of as personal opera .
and , if you 're going to make a personal opera , what about a personal instrument ?
everything i 've shown you so far -- whether it 's a hyper - cello for yo - yo ma or squeezy toy for a child -- the instruments stayed the same and are valuable for a certain class of person : a virtuoso , a child .
but what if i could make an instrument that could be adapted to the way i personally behave , to the way my hands work , to what i do very skillfully , perhaps , to what i do n't do so skillfully ?
i think that this is the future of interface , it 's the future of music , the future of instruments .
and i 'd like now to invite two very special people on the stage , so that i can give you an example of what personal instruments might be like .
so , can you give a hand to adam boulanger , ph.d . student from the mit media lab , and dan ellsey . dan , thanks to ted and to bombardier flexjet , dan is here with us today all the way from tewksbury . he 's a resident at tewksbury hospital .
this is by far the farthest he 's strayed from tewksbury hospital , i can tell you that , because he 's motivated to meet with you today and show you his own music .
so , first of all , dan , do you want to say hi to everyone and tell everyone who you are ?
dan ellsey : hello . my name is dan ellsey . i am 34 years old and i have cerebral palsy .
i have always loved music and i am excited to be able to conduct my own music with this new software .
tod machover : and we 're really excited to have you here , really dan .
so we met dan about three years ago , three and a half years ago , when we started working at tewksbury . everybody we met there was fantastic , did fantastic music . dan had never made music before , and it turned out he was really fantastic at it . he 's a born composer .
he 's very shy , too .
so , turned out he 's a fantastic composer , and over the last few years has been a constant collaborator of ours . he has made many , many pieces .
he makes his own cds . actually , he is quite well known in the boston area -- mentors people at the hospital and children , locally , in how to make their own music .
and i 'll let adam tell you . so , adam is a ph.d . student at mit , an expert in music technology and medicine . and adam and dan have become close collaborators .
what adam 's been working on for this last period is not only how to have dan be able easily to make his own pieces , but how he can perform his piece using this kind of personal instrument .
so , you want to say a little bit about how you guys work ?
adam boulanger : yes . so , tod and i entered into a discussion following the tewksbury work and it was really about how dan is an expressive person , and he 's an intelligent and creative person . and it 's in his face , it 's in his breathing , it 's in his eyes . how come he can n't perform one of his pieces of music ? that 's our responsibility , and it does n't make sense .
so we started developing a technology that will allow him with nuance , with precision , with control , and despite his physical disability , to be able to do that , to be able to perform his piece of music .
so , the process and the technology -- basically , first we needed an engineering solution . so , you know , we have a firewire camera , it looked at an infrared pointer .
we went with the type of gesture metaphor that dan was already used to with his speaking controller .
and this was actually the least interesting part of the work , you know , the design process . we needed an input ; we needed continuous tracking ; in the software , we look at the types of shapes he 's making .
but , then was the really interesting aspect of the work , following the engineering part , where , basically , we 're coding over dan 's shoulder at the hospital extensively to figure out , you know , how does dan move ?
what 's useful to him as an expressive motion ?
you know , what 's his metaphor for performance ?
what types of things does he find important to control and convey in a piece of music ?
so all the parameter fitting , and really the technology was stretched at that point to fit just dan .
and , you know , i think this is a perspective shift . it 's not that our technologies -- they provide access , they allow us to create pieces of creative work .
but what about expression ? what about that moment when an artist delivers that piece of work ? you know , do our technologies allow us to express ?
do they provide structure for us to do that ? and , you know , that 's a personal relationship to expression that is lacking in the technological sphere . so , you know , with dan , we needed a new design process , a new engineering process to sort of discover his movement and his path to expression that allow him to perform .
and so that 's what we 'll do today .
tm : so let 's do it . so dan do you want to tell everyone about what you 're going to play now ?
de : this is " my eagle song . "
tm : so dan is going to play a piece of his , called " my eagle song " .
in fact , this is the score for dan 's piece , completely composed by dan in hyperscore .
so he can use his infrared tracker to go directly into hyperscore .
he 's incredibly fast at it , too , faster than i am , in fact .
tm : he 's really modest , too .
so he can go in hyperscore . you start out by making melodies and rhythms .
he can place those exactly where he wants .
each one gets a color . he goes back into the composition window , draws the lines , places everything the way he wants to . looking at the hyperscore , you can see it also , you can see where the sections are , something might continue for a while , change , get really crazy and then end up with a big bang at the end .
so that 's the way he made his piece , and as adam says , we then figured out the best way to have him perform his piece .
it 's going to be looked at by this camera , analyze his movements , it 's going to let dan bring out all the different aspects of his music that he wants to .
and you 're also going to notice a visual on the screen .
we asked one of our students to look at what the camera is measuring .
but instead of making it very literal , showing you exactly the camera tracing , we turned it into a graphic that shows you the basic movement , and shows the way it 's being analyzed .
i think it gives an understanding of how we 're picking out movement from what dan 's doing , but i think it will also show you , if you look at that movement , that when dan makes music , his motions are very purposeful , very precise , very disciplined and they 're also very beautiful .
so , in hearing this piece , as i mentioned before , the most important thing is the music 's great , and it 'll show you who dan is .
so , are we ready adam ?
yeah .
tm : ok , now dan will play his piece " my eagle song " for you .
tm : bravo .
david byrne : how architecture helped music evolve 
 as his career grew , david byrne went from playing cbgb to carnegie hall . he asks : does the venue make the music ? from outdoor drumming to wagnerian operas to arena rock , he explores how context has pushed musical innovation .
this is the venue where , as a young man , some of the music that i wrote was first performed .
it was , remarkably , a pretty good sounding room .
with all the uneven walls and all the crap everywhere , it actually sounded pretty good .
this is a song that was recorded there .
this is not talking heads , in the picture anyway .
" by talking heads ) so the nature of the room meant that words could be understood .
the lyrics of the songs could be pretty much understood .
the sound system was kind of decent .
and there was n't a lot of reverberation in the room .
so the rhythms could be pretty intact too , pretty concise .
other places around the country had similar rooms .
this is tootsie 's orchid lounge in nashville .
the music was in some ways different , but in structure and form , very much the same .
the clientele behavior was very much the same too .
and so the bands at tootsie 's or at cbgb 's had to play loud enough -- the volume had to be loud enough to overcome people falling down , shouting out and doing whatever else they were doing .
since then , i 've played other places that are much nicer .
i 've played the disney hall here and carnegie hall and places like that .
and it 's been very exciting .
but i also noticed that sometimes the music that i had written , or was writing at the time , did n't sound all that great in some of those halls .
we managed , but sometimes those halls did n't seem exactly suited to the music i was making or had made .
so i asked myself : do i write stuff for specific rooms ?
do i have a place , a venue , in mind when i write ?
is that a kind of model for creativity ?
do we all make things with a venue , a context , in mind ?
okay , africa .
most of the popular music that we know now has a big part of its roots in west africa .
and the music there , i would say , the instruments , the intricate rhythms , the way it 's played , the setting , the context , it 's all perfect . it all works perfect .
the music works perfectly in that setting .
there 's no big room to create reverberation and confuse the rhythms .
the instruments are loud enough that they can be heard without amplification , etc. , etc.
it 's no accident .
it 's perfect for that particular context .
and it would be a mess in a context like this . this is a gothic cathedral .
in a gothic cathedral , this kind of music is perfect .
it does n't change key , the notes are long , there 's almost no rhythm whatsoever , and the room flatters the music .
it actually improves it .
this is the room that bach wrote some of his music for . this is the organ .
it 's not as big as a gothic cathedral , so he can write things that are a little bit more intricate .
he can , very innovatively , actually change keys without risking huge dissonances .
this is a little bit later .
this is the kind of rooms that mozart wrote in .
i think we 're in like 1770 , somewhere around there .
they 're smaller , even less reverberant , so he can write really frilly music that 's very intricate -- and it works .
it fits the room perfectly .
this is la scala .
it 's around the same time , i think it was built around 1776 .
people in the audience in these opera houses , when they were built , they used to yell out to one another .
they used to eat , drink and yell out to people on the stage , just like they do at cbgb 's and places like that .
if they liked an aria , they would holler and suggest that it be done again as an encore , not at the end of the show , but immediately .
and well , that was an opera experience .
this is the opera house that wagner built for himself .
and the size of the room is not that big .
it 's smaller than this .
but wagner made an innovation .
he wanted a bigger band .
he wanted a little more bombast , so he increased the size of the orchestra pit so he could get more low - end instruments in there .
okay .
this is carnegie hall .
obviously , this kind of thing became popular .
the halls got bigger . carnegie hall 's fair - sized .
it 's larger than some of the other symphony halls .
and they 're a lot more reverberant than la scala .
around the same , according to alex ross who writes for the new yorker , this kind of rule came into effect that audiences had to be quiet -- no more eating , drinking and yelling at the stage , or gossiping with one another during the show .
they had to be very quiet .
so those two things combined meant that a different kind of music worked best in these kind of halls .
it meant that there could be extreme dynamics , which there were n't in some of these other kinds of music .
quiet parts could be heard that would have been drowned out by all the gossiping and shouting .
but because of the reverberation in those rooms like carnegie hall , the music had to be maybe a little less rhythmic and a little more textural .
this is mahler .
it looks like bob dylan , but it 's mahler .
that was bob 's last record , yeah .
popular music , coming along at the same time .
this is a jazz band .
according to scott joplin , the bands were playing on riverboats and clubs .
again , it 's noisy . they 're playing for dancers .
there 's certain sections of the song -- the songs had different sections that the dancers really liked .
and they 'd say , " play that part again . "
well , there 's only so many times you can play the same section of a song over and over again for the dancers .
so the bands started to improvise new melodies .
and a new form of music was born .
these are played mainly in small rooms .
people are dancing , shouting and drinking .
so the music has to be loud enough to be heard above that .
same thing goes true for -- that 's the beginning of the century -- for the whole of 20th - century popular music , whether it 's rock or latin music or whatever .
[ live music ] does n't really change that much .
it changes about a third of the way into the 20th century , when this became one of the primary venues for music .
and this was one way that the music got there .
microphones enabled singers , in particular , and musicians and composers , to completely change the kind of music that they were writing .
so far , a lot of the stuff that was on the radio was live music , but singers , like frank sinatra , could use the mic and do things that they could never do without a microphone .
other singers after him went even further .
this is chet baker .
and this kind of thing would have been impossible without a microphone .
it would have been impossible without recorded music as well .
and he 's singing right into your ear .
he 's whispering into your ears .
the effect is just electric .
it 's like the guy is sitting next to you , whispering who knows what into your ear .
so at this point , music diverged .
there 's live music , and there 's recorded music .
and they no longer have to be exactly the same .
now there 's venues like this , a discotheque , and there 's jukeboxes in bars , where you do n't even need to have a band .
there does n't need to be any live performing musicians whatsoever , and the sound systems are good .
people began to make music specifically for discos and for those sound systems .
and , as with jazz , the dancers liked certain sections more than they did others .
so the early hip - hop guys would loop certain sections .
the mc would improvise lyrics in the same way that the jazz players would improvise melodies .
and another new form of music was born .
live performance , when it was incredibly successful , ended up in what is probably , acoustically , the worst sounding venues on the planet : sports stadiums , basketball arenas and hockey arenas .
musicians who ended up there did the best they could .
they wrote what is now called arena rock , which is medium-speed ballads .
they did the best they could given that this is what they 're writing for .
the tempos are medium . it sounds big .
it 's more a social situation than a musical situation .
and in some ways , the music that they 're writing for this place works perfectly .
so there 's more new venues .
one of the new ones is the automobile .
i grew up with a radio in a car .
but now that 's evolved into something else .
the car is a whole venue .
the music that , i would say , is written for automobile sound systems works perfectly on it .
it might not be what you want to listen to at home , but it works great in the car -- has a huge frequency spectrum , you know , big bass and high - end and the voice kind of stuck in the middle .
automobile music , you can share with your friends .
there 's one other kind of new venue , the private mp3 player .
presumably , this is just for christian music .
and in some ways it 's like carnegie hall , or when the audience had to hush up , because you can now hear every single detail .
in other ways , it 's more like the west african music because if the music in an mp3 player gets too quiet , you turn it up , and the next minute , your ears are blasted out by a louder passage .
so that does n't really work .
i think pop music , mainly , it 's written today , to some extent , is written for these kind of players , for this kind of personal experience where you can hear extreme detail , but the dynamic does n't change that much .
so i asked myself : okay , is this a model for creation , this adaptation that we do ?
and does it happen anywhere else ?
well , according to david attenborough and some other people , birds do it too -- that the birds in the canopy , where the foliage is dense , their calls tend to be high - pitched , short and repetitive .
and the birds on the floor tend to have lower pitched calls , so that they do n't get distorted when they bounce off the forest floor .
and birds like this savannah sparrow , they tend to have a buzzing type call .
and it turns out that a sound like this is the most energy efficient and practical way to transmit their call across the fields and savannahs .
other birds , like this tanager , have adapted within the same species .
the tananger on the east coast of the united states , where the forests are a little denser , has one kind of call , and the tananger on the other side , on the west has a different kind of call .
so birds do it too .
and i thought : well , if this is a model for creation , if we make music , primarily the form at least , to fit these contexts , and if we make art to fit gallery walls or museum walls , and if we write software to fit existing operating systems , is that how it works ?
yeah . i think it 's evolutionary .
it 's adaptive .
but the pleasure and the passion and the joy is still there .
this is a reverse view of things from the kind of traditional romantic view .
the romantic view is that first comes the passion and then the outpouring of emotion , and then somehow it gets shaped into something .
and i 'm saying , well , the passion 's still there , but the vessel that it 's going to be injected into and poured into , that is instinctively and intuitively created first .
we already know where that passion is going .
but this conflict of views is kind of interesting .
the writer , thomas frank , says that this might be a kind of explanation why some voters vote against their best interests , that voters , like a lot of us , assume , that if they hear something that sounds like it 's sincere , that it 's coming from the gut , that it 's passionate , that it 's more authentic .
and they 'll vote for that .
so that , if somebody can fake sincerity , if they can fake passion , they stand a better chance of being selected in that way , which seems a little dangerous .
i 'm saying the two , the passion , the joy , are not mutually exclusive .
maybe what the world needs now is for us to realize that we are like the birds .
we adapt .
we sing .
and like the birds , the joy is still there , even though we have changed what we do to fit the context .
thank you very much .
kevin breel : confessions of a depressed comic 
 kevin breel did n't look like a depressed kid : team captain , at every party , funny and confident . but he tells the story of the night he realized that -- to save his own life -- he needed to say four simple words .
for a long time in my life , i felt like i 'd been living two different lives .
there 's the life that everyone sees , and then there 's the life that only i see .
and in the life that everyone sees , who i am is a friend , a son , a brother , a stand - up comedian and a teenager .
that 's the life everyone sees .
if you were to ask my friends and family to describe me , that 's what they would tell you .
and that 's a huge part of me . that is who i am .
and if you were to ask me to describe myself , i 'd probably say some of those same things .
and i would n't be lying , but i would n't totally be telling you the truth , either , because the truth is , that 's just the life everyone else sees .
in the life that only i see , who i am , who i really am , is someone who struggles intensely with depression .
i have for the last six years of my life , and i continue to every day .
now , for someone who has never experienced depression or does n't really know what that means , that might surprise them to hear , because there 's this pretty popular misconception that depression is just being sad when something in your life goes wrong , when you break up with your girlfriend , when you lose a loved one , when you do n't get the job you wanted .
but that 's sadness . that 's a natural thing .
that 's a natural human emotion .
real depression is n't being sad when something in your life goes wrong .
real depression is being sad when everything in your life is going right .
that 's real depression , and that 's what i suffer from .
and to be totally honest , that 's hard for me to stand up here and say .
it 's hard for me to talk about , and it seems to be hard for everyone to talk about , so much so that no one 's talking about it .
and no one 's talking about depression , but we need to be , because right now it 's a massive problem .
it 's a massive problem .
but we do n't see it on social media , right ?
we do n't see it on facebook . we do n't see it on twitter .
we do n't see it on the news , because it 's not happy , it 's not fun , it 's not light .
and so because we do n't see it , we do n't see the severity of it .
but the severity of it and the seriousness of it is this : every 30 seconds , every 30 seconds , somewhere , someone in the world takes their own life because of depression , and it might be two blocks away , it might be two countries away , it might be two continents away , but it 's happening , and it 's happening every single day .
and we have a tendency , as a society , to look at that and go , " so what ? "
so what ? we look at that , and we go , " that 's your problem .
that 's their problem . "
we say we 're sad and we say we 're sorry , but we also say , " so what ? "
well , two years ago it was my problem , because i sat on the edge of my bed where i 'd sat a million times before and i was suicidal .
i was suicidal , and if you were to look at my life on the surface , you would n't see a kid who was suicidal .
you 'd see a kid who was the captain of his basketball team , the drama and theater student of the year , the english student of the year , someone who was consistently on the honor roll and consistently at every party .
so you would say i was n't depressed , you would say i was n't suicidal , but you would be wrong .
you would be wrong . so i sat there that night beside a bottle of pills with a pen and paper in my hand and i thought about taking my own life and i came this close to doing it .
i came this close to doing it .
and i did n't , so that makes me one of the lucky ones , one of the people who gets to step out on the ledge and look down but not jump , one of the lucky ones who survives .
well , i survived , and that just leaves me with my story , and my story is this : in four simple words , i suffer from depression .
i suffer from depression , and for a long time , i think , i was living two totally different lives , where one person was always afraid of the other .
i was afraid that people would see me for who i really was , that i was n't the perfect , popular kid in high school everyone thought i was , that beneath my smile , there was struggle , and beneath my light , there was dark , and beneath my big personality just hid even bigger pain .
see , some people might fear girls not liking them back .
some people might fear sharks . some people might fear death .
but for me , for a large part of my life , i feared myself .
i feared my truth , i feared my honesty , i feared my vulnerability , and that fear made me feel like i was forced into a corner , like i was forced into a corner and there was only one way out , and so i thought about that way every single day .
i thought about it every single day , and if i 'm being totally honest , standing here i 've thought about it again since , because that 's the sickness , that 's the struggle , that 's depression , and depression is n't chicken pox .
you do n't beat it once and it 's gone forever .
it 's something you live with . it 's something you live in .
it 's the roommate you can n't kick out . it 's the voice you can n't ignore .
it 's the feelings you can n't seem to escape , the scariest part is that after a while , you become numb to it . it becomes normal for you , and what you really fear the most is n't the suffering inside of you .
it 's the stigma inside of others , it 's the shame , it 's the embarrassment , it 's the disapproving look on a friend 's face , it 's the whispers in the hallway that you 're weak , it 's the comments that you 're crazy .
that 's what keeps you from getting help .
that 's what makes you hold it in and hide it .
it 's the stigma . so you hold it in and you hide it , and you hold it in and you hide it , and even though it 's keeping you in bed every day and it 's making your life feel empty no matter how much you try and fill it , you hide it , because the stigma in our society around depression is very real .
it 's very real , and if you think that it is n't , ask yourself this : would you rather make your next facebook status say you 're having a tough time getting out of bed because you hurt your back or you 're having a tough time getting out of bed every morning because you 're depressed ?
that 's the stigma , because unfortunately , we live in a world where if you break your arm , everyone runs over to sign your cast , but if you tell people you 're depressed , everyone runs the other way .
that 's the stigma .
we are so , so , so accepting of any body part breaking down other than our brains . and that 's ignorance .
that 's pure ignorance , and that ignorance has created a world that does n't understand depression , that does n't understand mental health .
and that 's ironic to me , because depression is one of the best documented problems we have in the world , yet it 's one of the least discussed .
we just push it aside and put it in a corner and pretend it 's not there and hope it 'll fix itself .
well , it won n't . it has n't , and it 's not going to , because that 's wishful thinking , and wishful thinking is n't a game plan , it 's procrastination , and we can n't procrastinate on something this important .
the first step in solving any problem is recognizing there is one .
well , we have n't done that , so we can n't really expect to find an answer when we 're still afraid of the question .
and i do n't know what the solution is .
i wish i did , but i do n't -- but i think , i think it has to start here .
it has to start with me , it has to start with you , it has to start with the people who are suffering , the ones who are hidden in the shadows .
we need to speak up and shatter the silence .
we need to be the ones who are brave for what we believe in , because if there 's one thing that i 've come to realize , if there 's one thing that i see as the biggest problem , it 's not in building a world where we eliminate the ignorance of others .
it 's in building a world where we teach the acceptance of ourselves , where we 're okay with who we are , because when we get honest , we see that we all struggle and we all suffer .
whether it 's with this , whether it 's with something else , we all know what it is to hurt .
we all know what it is to have pain in our heart , and we all know how important it is to heal .
but right now , depression is society 's deep cut that we 're content to put a band - aid over and pretend it 's not there .
well , it is there . it is there , and you know what ? it 's okay .
depression is okay . if you 're going through it , know that you 're okay .
and know that you 're sick , you 're not weak , and it 's an issue , not an identity , because when you get past the fear and the ridicule and the judgment and the stigma of others , you can see depression for what it really is , and that 's just a part of life , just a part of life , and as much as i hate , as much as i hate some of the places , some of the parts of my life depression has dragged me down to , in a lot of ways i 'm grateful for it .
because yeah , it 's put me in the valleys , but only to show me there 's peaks , and yeah it 's dragged me through the dark but only to remind me there is light .
my pain , more than anything in 19 years on this planet , has given me perspective , and my hurt , my hurt has forced me to have hope , have hope and to have faith , faith in myself , faith in others , faith that it can get better , that we can change this , that we can speak up and speak out and fight back against ignorance , fight back against intolerance , and more than anything , learn to love ourselves , learn to accept ourselves for who we are , the people we are , not the people the world wants us to be .
because the world i believe in is one where embracing your light does n't mean ignoring your dark .
the world i believe in is one where we 're measured by our ability to overcome adversities , not avoid them .
the world i believe in is one where i can look someone in the eye and say , " i 'm going through hell , " and they can look back at me and go , " me too , " and that 's okay , and it 's okay because depression is okay . we 're people .
we 're people , and we struggle and we suffer and we bleed and we cry , and if you think that true strength means never showing any weakness , then i 'm here to tell you you 're wrong .
you 're wrong , because it 's the opposite .
we 're people , and we have problems .
we 're not perfect , and that 's okay .
so we need to stop the ignorance , stop the intolerance , stop the stigma , and stop the silence , and we need to take away the taboos , take a look at the truth , and start talking , because the only way we 're going to beat a problem that people are battling alone is by standing strong together , by standing strong together .
and i believe that we can .
i believe that we can . thank you guys so much .
this is a dream come true . thank you .
thank you .
ronny edry : israel and iran : a love story ?
 when war between israel and iran seemed imminent , israeli graphic designer ronny edry shared a poster on facebook of himself and his daughter with a bold message : " iranians ... we [ heart ] you . " other israelis quickly created their own posters with the same message -- and iranians responded in kind . the simple act of communication inspired surprising facebook communities like " israel loves iran , " " iran loves israel " and even " palestine loves israel . " 
on march 14 , this year , i posted this poster on facebook .
this is an image of me and my daughter holding the israeli flag .
i will try to explain to you about the context of why and when i posted .
a few days ago , i was sitting waiting on the line at the grocery store , and the owner and one of the clients were talking to each other , and the owner was explaining to the client that we 're going to get 10,000 missiles on israel .
and the client was saying , no , it 's 10,000 a day .
this is the context . this is where we are now in israel .
we have this war with iran coming for 10 years now , and we have people , you know , afraid .
it 's like every year it 's the last minute that we can do something about the war with iran .
it 's like , if we do n't act now , it 's too late forever , for 10 years now .
so at some point it became , you know , to me , i 'm a graphic designer , so i made posters about it and i posted the one i just showed you before .
most of the time , i make posters , i post them on facebook , my friends like it , do n't like it , most of the time do n't like it , do n't share it , do n't nothing , and it 's another day .
so i went to sleep , and that was it for me .
and later on in the night , i woke up because i 'm always waking up in the night , and i went by the computer and i see all these red dots , you know , on facebook , which i 've never seen before .
and i was like , " what 's going on ? "
so i come to the computer and i start looking on , and suddenly i see many people talking to me , most of them i do n't know , and a few of them from iran , which is -- what ?
because you have to understand , in israel we do n't talk with people from iran .
we do n't know people from iran .
it 's like , on facebook , you have friends only from -- it 's like your neighbors are your friends on facebook .
and now people from iran are talking to me .
so i start answering this girl , and she 's telling me she saw the poster and she asked her family to come , because they do n't have a computer , she asked her family to come to see the poster , and they 're all sitting in the living room crying .
so i 'm like , whoa .
i ask my wife to come , and i tell her , you have to see that .
people are crying , and she came , she read the text , and she started to cry .
and everybody 's crying now .
so i do n't know what to do , so my first reflex , as a graphic designer , is , you know , to show everybody what i 'd just seen , and people started to see them and to share them , and that 's how it started .
the day after , when really it became a lot of talking , i said to myself , and my wife said to me , i also want a poster , so this is her .
because it 's working , put me in a poster now .
but more seriously , i was like , okay , these ones work , but it 's not just about me , it 's about people from israel who want to say something .
so i 'm going to shoot all the people i know , if they want , and i 'm going to put them in a poster and i 'm going to share them .
so i went to my neighbors and friends and students and i just asked them , give me a picture , i will make you a poster .
and that 's how it started . and that 's how , really , it 's unleashed , because suddenly people from facebook , friends and others , just understand that they can be part of it .
it 's not just one dude making one poster , it 's -- we can be part of it , so they start sending me pictures and ask me , " make me a poster . post it .
tell the iranians we from israel love you too . "
it became , you know , at some point it was really , really intense .
i mean , so many pictures , so i asked friends to come , graphic designers most of them , to make posters with me , because i did n't have the time .
it was a huge amount of pictures .
so for a few days , that 's how my living room was .
and we received israeli posters , israeli images , but also lots of comments , lots of messages from iran .
and we took these messages and we made posters out of it , because i know people : they do n't read , they see images .
if it 's an image , they may read it .
so here are a few of them .
this one is really moving for me because it 's the story of a girl who has been raised in iran to walk on an israeli flag to enter her school every morning , and now that she sees the posters that we 're sending , she starts -- she said that she changed her mind , and now she loves that blue , she loves that star , and she loves that flag , talking about the israeli flag , and she wished that we 'd meet and come to visit one another , and just a few days after i posted the first poster .
the day after , iranians started to respond with their own posters .
they have graphic designers . what ?
crazy , crazy .
so you can see they are still shy , they do n't want to show their faces , but they want to spread the message .
they want to respond . they want to say the same thing .
so . and now it 's communication .
it 's a two - way story . it 's israelis and iranians sending the same message , one to each other .
this never happened before , and this is two people supposed to be enemies , we 're on the verge of a war , and suddenly people on facebook are starting to say , " i like this guy . i love those guys . "
and it became really big at some point .
and then it became news .
because when you 're seeing the middle east , you see only the bad news .
and suddenly , there is something that was happening that was good news . so the guys on the news , they say , " okay , let 's talk about this . "
and they just came , and it was so much , i remember one day , michal , she was talking with the journalist , and she was asking him , " who 's gonna see the show ? " and he said , " everybody . "
so she said , " everybody in palestine , in where ? israel ?
who is everybody ? " " everybody . "
they said , " syria ? " " syria . "
" lebanon ? " " lebanon . "
at some point , he just said , " 40 million people are going to see you today .
it 's everybody . " the chinese .
and we were just at the beginning of the story .
something crazy also happened .
every time a country started talking about it , like germany , america , wherever , a page on facebook popped up with the same logo with the same stories , so at the beginning we had " iran - loves - israel , " which is an iranian sitting in tehran , saying , " okay , israel loves iran ?
i give you iran - loves - israel . "
you have palestine - loves - israel .
you have lebanon that just -- a few days ago .
and this whole list of pages on facebook dedicated to the same message , to people sending their love , one to each other .
the moment i really understood that something was happening , a friend of mine told me , " google the word ' israel . ' " and those were the first images on those days that popped up from google when you were typing , " israel " or " iran . "
we really changed how people see the middle east .
because you 're not in the middle east .
you 're somewhere over there , and then you want to see the middle east , so you go on google and you say , " israel , " and they give you the bad stuff .
and for a few days you got those images .
today the israel - loves - iran page is this number , 80,831 , and two million people last week went on the page and shared , liked , i do n't know , commented on one of the photos .
so for five months now , that 's what we are doing , me , michal , a few of my friends , are just making images .
we 're showing a new reality by just making images because that 's how the world perceives us .
they see images of us , and they see bad images .
so we 're working on making good images . end of story .
look at this one . this is the iran - loves - israel page .
this is not the israel - loves - iran . this is not my page .
this is a guy in tehran on the day of remembrance of the israeli fallen soldier putting an image of an israeli soldier on his page .
this is the enemy .
what ?
and it 's going both ways .
it 's like , we are showing respect , one to each other .
and we 're understanding . and you show compassion .
and you become friends .
and at some point , you become friends on facebook , and you become friends in life .
you can go and travel and meet people .
and i was in munich a few weeks ago .
i went there to open an exposition about iran and i met there with people from the page that told me , " okay , you 're going to be in europe , i 'm coming . i 'm coming from france , from holland , from germany , " of course , and from israel people came , and we just met there for the first time in real life .
i met with people that are supposed to be my enemies for the first time . and we just shake hands , and have a coffee and a nice discussion , and we talk about food and basketball .
and that was the end of it .
remember that image from the beginning ?
at some point we met in real life , and we became friends .
and it goes the other way around .
some girl that we met on facebook never been in israel , born and raised in iran , lives in germany , afraid of israelis because of what she knows about us , decides after a few months of talking on the internet with some israelis to come to israel , and she gets on the plane and arrives at ben gurion and says , " okay , not that big a deal . "
so a few weeks ago , the stress is getting higher , so we start this new campaign called " not ready to die in your war . "
i mean , it 's plus / minus the same message , but we wanted really to add some aggressivity to it .
and again , something amazing happened , something that we did n't have on the first wave of the campaign .
now people from iran , the same ones who were shy at the first campaign and just sent , you know , their foot and half their faces , now they 're sending their faces , and they 're saying , " okay , no problem , we 're into it . we are with you . "
just read where those guys are from .
and for every guy from israel , you 've got someone from iran .
just people sending their pictures .
crazy , yes ?
so -- so you may ask yourself , who is this dude ?
my name is ronny edry , and i 'm 41 , i 'm an israeli , i 'm a father of two , i 'm a husband , and i 'm a graphic designer . i 'm teaching graphic design .
and i 'm not that naive , because a lot of the time i 've been asked , many times i 've been asked , " yeah , but , this is really naive , sending flowers over , i mean  " i was in the army . i was in the paratroopers for three years , and i know how it looks from the ground .
i know how it can look really bad .
so to me , this is the courageous thing to do , to try to reach the other side before it 's too late , because when it 's going to be too late , it 's going to be too late .
and sometimes war is inevitable , sometimes , but maybe [ with ] effort , we can avoid it .
maybe as people , because especially in israel , we 're in a democracy . we have the freedom of speech , and maybe that little thing can change something .
and really , we can be our own ambassadors .
we can just send a message and hope for the best .
so i want to ask michal , my wife , to come with me on the stage just to make with you one image , because it 's all about images .
and maybe that image will help us change something .
just raise that . exactly .
and i 'm just going to take a picture of it , and i 'm just going to post it on facebook with kind of " israelis for peace " or something .
oh my god .
do n't cry .
thank you guys .
charles moore : seas of plastic 
 capt. charles moore of the algalita marine research foundation first discovered the great pacific garbage patch -- an endless floating waste of plastic trash . now he 's drawing attention to the growing , choking problem of plastic debris in our seas .
let 's talk trash .
you know , we had to be taught to renounce the powerful conservation ethic we developed during the great depression and world war ii .
after the war , we needed to direct our enormous production capacity toward creation of products for peacetime .
life magazine helped in this effort by announcing the introduction of throwaways that would liberate the housewife from the drudgery of doing dishes .
mental note to the liberators : throwaway plastics take a lot of space and do n't biodegrade .
only we humans make waste that nature can n't digest .
plastics are also hard to recycle .
a teacher told me how to express the under - five - percent of plastics recovered in our waste stream .
it 's diddly - point - squat .
that 's the percentage we recycle .
now , melting point has a lot to do with this .
plastic is not purified by the re-melting process like glass and metal .
it begins to melt below the boiling point of water and does not drive off the oily contaminants for which it is a sponge .
half of each year 's 100 billion pounds of thermal plastic pellets will be made into fast - track trash .
a large , unruly fraction of our trash will flow downriver to the sea .
here is the accumulation at biona creek next to the l.a. airport .
and here is the flotsam near california state university long beach and the diesel plant we visited yesterday .
in spite of deposit fees , much of this trash leading out to the sea will be plastic beverage bottles .
we use two million of them in the united states every five minutes , here imaged by ted presenter chris jordan , who artfully documents mass consumption and zooms in for more detail .
here is a remote island repository for bottles off the coast of baja california .
isla san roque is an uninhabited bird rookery off baja 's sparsely populated central coast .
notice that the bottles here have caps on them .
bottles made of polyethylene terephthalate , pet , will sink in seawater and not make it this far from civilization .
also , the caps are produced in separate factories from a different plastic , polypropylene .
they will float in seawater , but unfortunately do not get recycled under the bottle bills .
let 's trace the journey of the millions of caps that make it to sea solo .
after a year the ones from japan are heading straight across the pacific , while ours get caught in the california current and first head down to the latitude of cabo san lucas .
after ten years , a lot of the japanese caps are in what we call the eastern garbage patch , while ours litter the philippines .
after 20 years , we see emerging the debris accumulation zone of the north pacific gyre .
it so happens that millions of albatross nesting on kure and midway atolls in the northwest hawaiian islands national monument forage here and scavenge whatever they can find for regurgitation to their chicks .
a four - month old laysan albatross chick died with this in its stomach .
hundreds of thousands of the goose - sized chicks are dying with stomachs full of bottle caps and other rubbish , like cigarette lighters ...
but , mostly bottle caps .
sadly , their parents mistake bottle caps for food tossing about in the ocean surface .
the retainer rings for the caps also have consequences for aquatic animals .
this is mae west , still alive at a zookeeper 's home in new orleans .
i wanted to see what my home town of long beach was contributing to the problem , so on coastal clean - up day in 2005 i went to the long beach peninsula , at the east end of our long beach .
we cleaned up the swaths of beach shown .
i offered five cents each for bottle caps .
i got plenty of takers .
here are the 1,100 bottle caps they collected .
i thought i would spend 20 bucks .
that day i ended up spending nearly 60 .
i separated them by color and put them on display the next earth day at cabrillo marine aquarium in san pedro .
governor schwarzenegger and his wife maria stopped by to discuss the display .
in spite of my " girly man " hat , crocheted from plastic shopping bags , they shook my hand .
i showed him and maria a zooplankton trawl from the gyre north of hawaii with more plastic than plankton .
here 's what our trawl samples from the plastic soup our ocean has become look like .
trawling a zooplankton net on the surface for a mile produces samples like this .
and this .
now , when the debris washes up on the beaches of hawaii it looks like this .
and this particular beach is kailua beach , the beach where our president and his family vacationed before moving to washington .
now , how do we analyze samples like this one that contain more plastic than plankton ?
we sort the plastic fragments into different size classes , from five millimeters to one - third of a millimeter .
small bits of plastic concentrate persistent organic pollutants up to a million times their levels in the surrounding seawater .
we wanted to see if the most common fish in the deep ocean , at the base of the food chain , was ingesting these poison pills .
we did hundreds of necropsies , and over a third had polluted plastic fragments in their stomachs .
the record - holder , only two - and - a - half inches long , had 84 pieces in its tiny stomach .
now , you can buy certified organic produce .
but no fishmonger on earth can sell you a certified organic wild - caught fish .
this is the legacy we are leaving to future generations .
the throwaway society cannot be contained -- it has gone global .
we simply cannot store and maintain or recycle all our stuff .
we have to throw it away .
now , the market can do a lot for us , but it can n't fix the natural system in the ocean we 've broken .
all the king 's horses and all the king 's men ...
will never gather up all the plastic and put the ocean back together again .
narrator : the levels are increasing , the amount of packaging is increasing , the " throwaway " concept of living is proliferating , and it 's showing up in the ocean .
anchor : he offers no hope of cleaning it up .
straining the ocean for plastic would be beyond the budget of any country and it might kill untold amounts of sea life in the process .
the solution , moore says , is to stop the plastic at its source : stop it on land before it falls in the ocean .
and in a plastic - wrapped and packaged world , he does n't hold out much hope for that , either .
this is brian rooney for nightline , in long beach , california .
charles moore : thank you .
carolyn steel : how food shapes our cities 
 every day , in a city the size of london , 30 million meals are served . but where does all the food come from ? architect carolyn steel discusses the daily miracle of feeding a city , and shows how ancient food routes shaped the modern world .
how do you feed a city ?
it 's one of the great questions of our time .
yet it 's one that 's rarely asked .
we take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant , or indeed into this theater 's foyer in about an hour 's time , there is going to be food there waiting for us , having magically come from somewhere .
but when you think that every day for a city the size of london , enough food has to be produced , transported , bought and sold , cooked , eaten , disposed of , and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth , it 's remarkable that cities get fed at all .
we live in places like this as if they 're the most natural things in the world , forgetting that because we 're animals and that we need to eat , we 're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were .
and as more of us move into cities , more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me -- it 's soybean fields in mato grosso in brazil -- in order to feed us .
these are extraordinary landscapes , but few of us ever get to see them .
and increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either .
as more of us move into cities , more of us are eating meat , so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals .
and given that it takes three times as much grain -- actually ten times as much grain -- to feed a human if it 's passed through an animal first , that 's not a very efficient way of feeding us .
and it 's an escalating problem too .
by 2050 , it 's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities .
and it 's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed .
so meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand .
and that 's going to pose an enormous problem .
six billion hungry carnivores to feed , by 2050 .
that 's a big problem . and actually if we carry on as we are , it 's a problem we 're very unlikely to be able to solve .
nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land .
although at the same time we 're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion .
we 're very hungry for fossil fuels too .
it takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the west .
and even though there is food that we are producing at great cost , we do n't actually value it .
half the food produced in the usa is currently thrown away .
and to end all of this , at the end of this long process , we 're not even managing to feed the planet properly .
a billion of us are obese , while a further billion starve .
none of it makes very much sense .
and when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations , it 's a grim picture .
as we 're moving into cities , the world is also embracing a western diet .
and if we look to the future , it 's an unsustainable diet .
so how did we get here ?
and more importantly , what are we going to do about it ?
well , to answer the slightly easier question first , about 10,000 years ago , i would say , is the beginning of this process in the ancient near east , known as the fertile crescent .
because , as you can see , it was crescent shaped .
and it was also fertile .
and it was here , about 10,000 years ago , that two extraordinary inventions , agriculture and urbanism , happened roughly in the same place and at the same time .
this is no accident , because agriculture and cities are bound together . they need each other .
because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements .
and if we look at what those settlements were like , we see they were compact .
they were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at ur , that were , in fact , effectively , spiritualized , central food distribution centers .
because it was the temples that organized the harvest , gathered in the grain , offered it to the gods , and then offered the grain that the gods did n't eat back to the people .
so , if you like , the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them .
and in fact , that 's true of every ancient city .
but of course not all of them were that small .
famously , rome had about a million citizens by the first century a.d.
so how did a city like this feed itself ?
the answer is what i call " ancient food miles . "
basically , rome had access to the sea , which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away .
this is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world , because it was very difficult to transport food over roads , which were rough .
and the food obviously went off very quickly .
so rome effectively waged war on places like carthage and egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves .
and , in fact , you could say that the expansion of the empire was really sort of one long , drawn out militarized shopping spree , really .
in fact -- i love the fact , i just have to mention this : rome in fact used to import oysters from london , at one stage . i think that 's extraordinary .
so rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite .
but the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the pre-industrial world .
if we look at a map of london in the 17th century , we can see that its grain , which is coming in from the thames , along the bottom of this map .
so the grain markets were to the south of the city .
and the roads leading up from them to cheapside , which was the main market , were also grain markets .
and if you look at the name of one of those streets , bread street , you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago .
and the same of course was true for fish .
fish was , of course , coming in by river as well . same thing .
and of course billingsgate , famously , was london 's fish market , operating on - site here until the mid - 1980s .
which is extraordinary , really , when you think about it .
everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port .
this is another thing about food in cities : once its roots into the city are established , they very rarely move .
meat is a very different story because , of course , animals could walk into the city .
so much of london 's meat was coming from the northwest , from scotland and wales .
so it was coming in , and arriving at the city at the northwest , which is why smithfield , london 's very famous meat market , was located up there .
poultry was coming in from east anglia and so on , to the northeast .
i feel a bit like a weather woman doing this . anyway , and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes .
and then when they hit the eastern end of cheapside , that 's where they were sold , which is why it 's called poultry .
and , in fact , if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age , you can trace food coming in to it .
you can actually see how it was physically shaped by food , both by reading the names of the streets , which give you a lot of clues .
friday street , in a previous life , is where you went to buy your fish on a friday .
but also you have to imagine it full of food .
because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold .
and if we look at an image of smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from .
in fact , if you were having sunday lunch , the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier .
so this was obviously an organic city , part of an organic cycle .
and then 10 years later everything changed .
this is an image of the great western in 1840 .
and as you can see , some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep .
so all of a sudden , these animals are no longer walking into market .
they 're being slaughtered out of sight and mind , somewhere in the countryside .
and they 're coming into the city by rail .
and this changes everything .
to start off with , it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities , really any size and shape , in any place .
cities used to be constrained by geography ; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means .
all of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography .
and as you can see from these maps of london , in the 90 years after the trains came , it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot , and so on , to a large splurge , that would be very , very difficult to feed with anybody on foot , either animals or people .
and of course that was just the beginning . after the trains came cars , and really this marks the end of this process .
it 's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all .
and this is the kind of city that 's devoid of smell , devoid of mess , certainly devoid of people , because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape .
in fact , what they did to get food was they got in their cars , drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts , came back with a week 's worth of shopping , and wondered what on earth to do with it .
and this really is the moment when our relationship , both with food and cities , changes completely .
here we have food -- that used to be the center , the social core of the city -- at the periphery .
it used to be a social event , buying and selling food .
now it 's anonymous .
we used to cook ; now we just add water , or a little bit of an egg if you 're making a cake or something .
we do n't smell food to see if it 's okay to eat .
we just read the back of a label on a packet .
and we do n't value food . we do n't trust it .
so instead of trusting it , we fear it .
and instead of valuing it , we throw it away .
one of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they 've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder .
by making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place , they 've actually distanced us from our most important relationship , which is that of us and nature .
and also they 've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver , that , as we 've seen , are unsustainable .
so what are we going to do about that ?
it 's not a new question .
500 years ago it 's what thomas more was asking himself .
this is the frontispiece of his book " utopia . "
and it was a series of semi - independent city - states , if that sounds remotely familiar , a day 's walk from one another where everyone was basically farming - mad , and grew vegetables in their back gardens , and ate communal meals together , and so on .
and i think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of utopia , even though more never framed it that way .
and here is another very famous " utopian " vision , that of ebenezer howard , " the garden city . "
same idea : series of semi - independent city - states , little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around , joined to one another by railway .
and again , food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision .
it even got built , but nothing to do with this vision that howard had .
and that is the problem with these utopian ideas , that they are utopian .
utopia was actually a word that thomas moore used deliberately .
it was a kind of joke , because it 's got a double derivation from the greek .
it can either mean a good place , or no place .
because it 's an ideal . it 's an imaginary thing . we can n't have it .
and i think , as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling , that makes it not much use .
so i 've come up with an alternative , which is sitopia , from the ancient greek , " sitos " for food , and " topos " for place .
i believe we already live in sitopia .
we live in a world shaped by food , and if we realize that , we can use food as a really powerful tool -- a conceptual tool , design tool , to shape the world differently .
so if we were to do that , what might sitopia look like ?
well i think it looks a bit like this .
i have to use this slide . it 's just the look on the face of the dog .
but anyway , this is -- it 's food at the center of life , at the center of family life , being celebrated , being enjoyed , people taking time for it .
this is where food should be in our society .
but you can n't have scenes like this unless you have people like this .
by the way , these can be men as well .
it 's people who think about food , who think ahead , who plan , who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them .
we need these people . we 're part of a network .
because without these kinds of people we can n't have places like this .
here , i deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable .
but networks , markets where food is being grown locally .
it 's common . it 's fresh .
it 's part of the social life of the city .
because without that , you can n't have this kind of place , food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape , and is not just a zero - sum commodity off in some unseen hell - hole .
cows with a view .
steaming piles of humus .
this is basically bringing the whole thing together .
and this is a community project i visited recently in toronto .
it 's a greenhouse , where kids get told all about food and growing their own food .
here is a plant called kevin , or maybe it 's a plant belonging to a kid called kevin . i do n't know .
but anyway , these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important .
so sitopia , for me , is really a way of seeing .
it 's basically recognizing that sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere .
the trick is to join them up , to use food as a way of seeing .
and if we do that , we 're going to stop seeing cities as big , metropolitan , unproductive blobs , like this .
we 're going to see them more like this , as part of the productive , organic framework of which they are inevitably a part , symbiotically connected .
but of course , that 's not a great image either , because we need not to be producing food like this anymore .
we need to be thinking more about permaculture , which is why i think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing .
it 's a re-conceptualization of the way food shapes our lives .
the best image i know of this is from 650 years ago .
it 's ambrogio lorenzetti 's " allegory of good government . "
it 's about the relationship between the city and the countryside .
and i think the message of this is very clear .
if the city looks after the country , the country will look after the city .
and i want us to ask now , what would ambrogio lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today ?
what would an allegory of good government look like today ?
because i think it 's an urgent question .
it 's one we have to ask , and we have to start answering .
we know we are what we eat .
we need to realize that the world is also what we eat .
but if we take that idea , we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better .
thank you very much .
eddi reader : " kiteflyer 's hill " 
 singer / songwriter eddi reader performs " kiteflyer 's hill , " a tender look back at a lost love . with thomas dolby on piano .
this is about a place in london called kiteflyer 's hill where i used to go and spend hours going " when is he coming back ? when is he coming back ? "
so this is another one dedicated to that guy ...
who i 've got over .
but this is " kiteflyer 's hill . "
it 's a beautiful song written by a guy called martin evan , actually , for me .
boo hewerdine , thomas dolby , thank you very much for inviting me . it 's been a blessing singing for you .
thank you very much .
do you remember when we used to go up to kiteflyer 's hill ? those summer nights , so still with all of the city beneath us and all of our lives ahead before cruel and foolish words were cruelly and foolishly said some nights i think of you and then i go up on kiteflyer 's hill wrapped up against the winter chill and somewhere in the city beneath me you lie asleep in your bed and i wonder if ever just briefly do i creep in your dreams now and then where are you now ? my wild summer love where are you now ? have the years been kind ? and do you think of me sometimes up on kiteflyer 's hill ? oh , i pray you one day will we won n't say a word we won n't need them sometimes silence is best we 'll just stand in the still of the evening and whisper farewell to loneliness where are you now ? my wild summer love where are you now ? do you think of me sometimes ? and do you ever make that climb ? where are you now ? my wild summer love where are you now ? have the years been kind ? and do you ever make that climb up on kiteflyer 's hill ? kiteflyer 's ... [ french ] where are you ? where are you now ? where are you now ? kiteflyer 's ... gracias . thank you very much .
christopher c . deam : the airstream , restyled 
 in this low - key , image - packed talk from 2002 , designer christopher c . deam talks about his makeover of an american classic : the airstream travel trailer .
i was asked by wilsonart international , a plastic laminate company , which is the largest plastic laminate company in the world -- they asked me to design a trade show booth for exhibition at the international contemporary furniture fair in new york , in 2000 .
so looking at their three main markets for their product which were basically transportation design , interiors and furniture , we came up with the solution of taking an old airstream trailer and gutting it , and trying to portray laminate , and a trailer , in kind of a fresh , new contemporary look .
when this trailer showed up at my shop in berkeley , i 'd actually never stepped foot in an airstream trailer , or any other trailer .
so i can be somebody that can look at this in a totally fresh perspective and see if i can optimize it in its most idealistic fashion .
i decided i had to do some research and really figure out what had gone wrong somewhere along the history of airstream .
what i discovered in these interiors is that there was a disconnect between the exterior shell and the interior architecture of the pieces .
in that the shell was originally conceived as a lightweight , modern , futuristic , high - tech pod for hurtling down the freeway , and the interiors were completely out of sync with that .
in fact it appeared like they referenced a mountain cabin .
that seemed really like a crisis to me , that they had never been able to develop a vocabulary about escape , and about travel , and modernity in this trailer that was consistent with the shell .
we really needed to do some archeology in the trailer itself to figure out what 's authentic in an airstream trailer , and what feels like it has true purpose and utility .
we stripped out all the vinyl and zolatone paint that was covering up this just fantastic aluminum shell .
we took off all the visible hardware and trim that was kind of doing the country cabin thing .
i literally drew on the walls of the trailer , mocked it up in cardboard , we 'd come in and cut , decide things were wrong , pull it out , put it back in .
the main goal was to smooth out the interior , and begin to speak about motion , and mobility , and independence .
the biggest difficulty on one of these trailers is that when you 're designing there 's actually no logical place to stop and start materials because of the continuous form of the trailer .
there 's no such things as two walls and a ceiling coming together , where you can change materials and shapes .
so that became a challenge .
compounding that , the material of choice , laminate , that i was trying to highlight , only bends in two dimensions .
it 's a compound curve interior .
what i had to devise was a way of fooling the eye into believing that all these panels are curved with the shell .
what i came up with was a series of second skins that basically float over the aluminum shell .
and what i was trying to do there was direct your eye in the space , so that you would perceive the geometry in a different way , and that the casework would n't break up the space .
they also gave us a way to run power and rewire the trailer without tearing out the skin , so they function as an electrical chase .
that 's the trailer , pretty much finished .
that trailer led to another commission , to participate in whats called tokyo designers block .
its a week of furniture design events in tokyo , in october .
teruo kurosaki , who owns a furniture company called idee , he asked me to ship him two trailers to tokyo .
he said one he would like to make a real trailer , functioning , and we would sell that one .
trailer number two , you have a blank slate , you can to anything you want .
we came up with a fantasy scenario of a dj traveling around the states , that would collect records and go on tours .
this trailer housed two turntables , mixer , wet bar , fridge , integrated sound system .
it 's got a huge couch , fits quite a few people , and basically we 'd had a great time with this .
and so in this trailer i took it upon myself to think about travel , and escape , in an idiosyncratic sense .
a lot of these ideas migrated into the production trailers for airstream .
this brings us up to the time that i started consulting to airstream .
they came to me and said , " well , what can we do to freshen this thing up ?
and do you think kids , you know , skateboarders , surfers , rock climbers , would use these things ? "
and i said , " well , not in that interior . "
anyway , i went out to airstream about six times during the process of building this prototype , and it 's called the bambi prototype .
i thought , " finally , oh yeah great , big company , i 'm gonna work with somebody with money for tooling and molding . "
and i walked in their prototype facility , and it 's exactly like my shop , only bigger -- same tools , same things .
so the problem became -- and they set this dilemma to me -- that you have to design the interior using only our existing technology , and there 's no money for tooling or molding .
the trailers themselves are actually hand - built .
all the casework is hand - scribed in , uniquely , so you can n't just cut 100 parts for 100 trailers , you have to cut them big , and every single one is hand - fit .
they did n't want to go to a componentized system .
and there it is , that 's the bambi 16 .
elliot krane : the mystery of chronic pain 
 we think of pain as a symptom , but there are cases where the nervous system develops feedback loops and pain becomes a terrifying disease in itself . starting with the story of a girl whose sprained wrist turned into a nightmare , elliot krane talks about the complex mystery of chronic pain , and reviews the facts we 're just learning about how it works and how to treat it .
i 'm a pediatrician and an anesthesiologist , so i put children to sleep for a living .
and i 'm an academic , so i put audiences to sleep for free .
but what i actually mostly do is i manage the pain management service at the packard children 's hospital up at stanford in palo alto .
and it 's from the experience from about 20 or 25 years of doing that that i want to bring to you the message this morning , that pain is a disease .
now most of the time , you think of pain as a symptom of a disease , and that 's true most of the time .
it 's the symptom of a tumor or an infection or an inflammation or an operation .
but about 10 percent of the time , after the patient has recovered from one of those events , pain persists .
it persists for months and oftentimes for years , and when that happens , it is its own disease .
and before i tell you about how it is that we think that happens and what we can do about it , i want to show you how it feels for my patients .
so imagine , if you will , that i 'm stroking your arm with this feather , as i 'm stroking my arm right now .
now , i want you to imagine that i 'm stroking it with this .
please keep your seat .
a very different feeling .
now what does it have to do with chronic pain ?
imagine , if you will , these two ideas together .
imagine what your life would be like if i were to stroke it with this feather , but your brain was telling you that this is what you are feeling -- and that is the experience of my patients with chronic pain .
in fact , imagine something even worse .
imagine i were to stroke your child 's arm with this feather , and their brain [ was ] telling them that they were feeling this hot torch .
that was the experience of my patient , chandler , whom you see in the photograph .
as you can see , she 's a beautiful , young woman .
she was 16 years old last year when i met her , and she aspired to be a professional dancer .
and during the course of one of her dance rehearsals , she fell on her outstretched arm and sprained her wrist .
now you would probably imagine , as she did , that a wrist sprain is a trivial event in a person 's life .
wrap it in an ace bandage , take some ibuprofen for a week or two , and that 's the end of the story .
but in chandler 's case , that was the beginning of the story .
this is what her arm looked like when she came to my clinic about three months after her sprain .
you can see that the arm is discolored , purplish in color .
it was cadaverically cold to the touch .
the muscles were frozen , paralyzed -- dystonic is how we refer to that .
the pain had spread from her wrist to her hands , to her fingertips , from her wrist up to her elbow , almost all the way to her shoulder .
but the worst part was , not the spontaneous pain that was there 24 hours a day .
the worst part was that she had allodynia , the medical term for the phenomenon that i just illustrated with the feather and with the torch .
the lightest touch of her arm -- the touch of a hand , the touch even of a sleeve , of a garment , as she put it on -- caused excruciating , burning pain .
how can the nervous system get this so wrong ?
how can the nervous system misinterpret an innocent sensation like the touch of a hand and turn it into the malevolent sensation of the touch of the flame ?
well you probably imagine that the nervous system in the body is hardwired like your house .
in your house , wires run in the wall , from the light switch to a junction box in the ceiling and from the junction box to the light bulb .
and when you turn the switch on , the light goes on .
and when you turn the switch off , the light goes off .
so people imagine the nervous system is just like that .
if you hit your thumb with a hammer , these wires in your arm -- that , of course , we call nerves -- transmit the information into the junction box in the spinal cord where new wires , new nerves , take the information up to the brain where you become consciously aware that your thumb is now hurt .
but the situation , of course , in the human body is far more complicated than that .
instead of it being the case that that junction box in the spinal cord is just simple where one nerve connects with the next nerve by releasing these little brown packets of chemical information called neurotransmitters in a linear one - on - one fashion , in fact , what happens is the neurotransmitters spill out in three dimensions -- laterally , vertically , up and down in the spinal cord -- and they start interacting with other adjacent cells .
these cells , called glial cells , were once thought to be unimportant structural elements of the spinal cord that did nothing more than hold all the important things together , like the nerves .
but it turns out the glial cells have a vital role in the modulation , amplification and , in the case of pain , the distortion of sensory experiences .
these glial cells become activated .
their dna starts to synthesize new proteins , which spill out and interact with adjacent nerves , and they start releasing their neurotransmitters , and those neurotransmitters spill out and activate adjacent glial cells , and so on and so forth , until what we have is a positive feedback loop .
it 's almost as if somebody came into your home and rewired your walls so that the next time you turned on the light switch , the toilet flushed three doors down , or your dishwasher went on , or your computer monitor turned off .
that 's crazy , but that 's , in fact , what happens with chronic pain .
and that 's why pain becomes its own disease .
the nervous system has plasticity .
it changes , and it morphs in response to stimuli .
well , what do we do about that ?
what can we do in a case like chandler 's ?
we treat these patients in a rather crude fashion at this point in time .
we treat them with symptom - modifying drugs -- painkillers -- which are , frankly , not very effective for this kind of pain .
we take nerves that are noisy and active that should be quiet , and we put them to sleep with local anesthetics .
and most importantly , what we do is we use a rigorous , and often uncomfortable , process of physical therapy and occupational therapy to retrain the nerves in the nervous system to respond normally to the activities and sensory experiences that are part of everyday life .
and we support all of that with an intensive psychotherapy program to address the despondency , despair and depression that always accompanies severe , chronic pain .
it 's successful , as you can see from this video of chandler , who , two months after we first met her , is now doings a back flip .
and i had lunch with her yesterday because she 's a college student studying dance at long beach here , and she 's doing absolutely fantastic .
but the future is actually even brighter .
the future holds the promise that new drugs will be developed that are not symptom - modifying drugs that simply mask the problem , as we have now , but that will be disease - modifying drugs that will actually go right to the root of the problem and attack those glial cells , or those pernicious proteins that the glial cells elaborate , that spill over and cause this central nervous system wind - up , or plasticity , that so is capable of distorting and amplifying the sensory experience that we call pain .
so i have hope that in the future , the prophetic words of george carlin will be realized , who said , " my philosophy : no pain , no pain . "
thank you very much .
kristina gjerde : making law on the high seas 
 kristina gjerde studies the law of the high seas -- the 64 percent of our ocean that is n't protected by any national law at all . gorgeous photos show the hidden worlds that gjerde and other lawyers are working to protect from trawling and trash - dumping , through smart policymaking and a healthy dose of pr .
today i 'm going to take you on a voyage to some place so deep , so dark , so unexplored that we know less about it than we know about the dark side of the moon .
it 's a place of myth and legend .
it 's a place marked on ancient maps as " here be monsters . "
it is a place where each new voyage of exploration brings back new discoveries of creatures so wondrous and strange that our forefathers would have considered them monstrous indeed .
instead , they just make me green with envy that my colleague from iucn was able to go on this journey to the south of madagascar seamounts to actually take photographs and to see these wondrous creatures of the deep .
we are talking about the high seas .
the " high seas " is a legal term , but in fact , it covers 50 percent of the planet .
with an average depth of the oceans of 4,000 meters , in fact , the high seas covers and provides nearly 90 percent of the habitat for life on this earth .
it is , in theory , the global commons , belonging to us all .
but in reality , it is managed by and for those who have the resources to go out and exploit it .
so today i 'm going to take you on a voyage to cast light on some of the outdated myths and legends and assumptions that have kept us as the true stakeholders in the high seas in the dark .
we 're going to voyage to some of these special places that we 've been discovering in the past few years to show why we really need to care .
and then finally , we 're going to try to develop and pioneer a new perspective on high seas governance that 's rooted in ocean - basin - wide conservation , but framed in an arena of global norms of precaution and respect .
so here is a picture of the high seas as seen from above -- that area in the darker blue .
to me , as an international lawyer , this scared me far more than any of the creatures or the monsters we may have seen , for it belies the notion that you can actually protect the ocean , the global ocean , that provides us all with carbon storage , with heat storage , with oxygen , if you can only protect 36 percent .
this is indeed the true heart of the planet .
some of the problems that we have to confront are that the current international laws -- for example , shipping -- provide more protection to the areas closest to shore .
for example , garbage discharge , something you would think just simply goes away , but the laws regulating ship discharge of garbage actually get weaker the further you are from shore .
as a result , we have garbage patches the size of twice - texas .
it 's unbelievable .
we used to think the solution to pollution was dilution , but that has proved to be no longer the case .
so what we have learned from social scientists and economists like elinor ostrom , who are studying the phenomenon of management of the commons on a local scale , is that there are certain prerequisites that you can put into place that enable you to manage and access open space for the good of one and all .
and these include a sense of shared responsibility , common norms that bind people together as a community .
conditional access : you can invite people in , but they have to be able to play by the rules .
and of course , if you want people to play by the rules , you still need an effective system of monitoring and enforcement , for as we 've discovered , you can trust , but you also need to verify .
what i 'd also like to convey is that it is not all doom and gloom that we are seeing in the high seas .
for a group of very dedicated individuals -- scientists , conservationists , photographers and states -- were able to actually change a tragic trajectory that was destroying fragile seascapes such as this coral garden that you see in front of you .
that is , we 're able to save it from a fate of deep - sea bottom trawling .
and how did we do that ?
well , as i said , we had a group of photographers that went out on board ships and actually photographed the activities in process .
but we also spent many hours in the basements of the united nations , trying to work with governments to make them understand what was going on so far away from land that few of us had ever even imagined that these creatures existed .
so within three years , from 2003 to 2006 , we were able to get norm in place that actually changed the paradigm of how fishers went about deep - sea bottom trawling .
instead of " go anywhere , do anything you want , " we actually created a regime that required prior assessment of where you 're going and a duty to prevent significant harm .
in 2009 , when the u.n. reviewed progress , they discovered that almost 100 million square - kilometers of seabed had been protected .
this does not mean that it 's the final solution , or that this even provides permanent protection .
but what it does mean is that a group of individuals can form a community to actually shape the way high seas are governed , to create a new regime .
so i 'm looking optimistically at our opportunities for creating a true , blue perspective for this beautiful planet .
sylvia 's wish provides us with that leverage , that access to the heart of human beings , you might say , who have rarely seen places beyond their own toes , but are now hopefully going to become interested in the full life - cycle of creatures like these sea turtles , who indeed spend most of their time in the high seas .
today , we 're just going to voyage to a small sampling of some of these special areas , just to give you an idea of the flavor of the riches and wonders they do contain .
the sargasso sea , for example , is not a sea bounded by coastlines , but it is bounded by oceanic currents that contain and envelope this wealth of sargassum that grows and aggregates there .
it 's also known as the spawning ground for eels from northern european and northern american rivers that are now so dwindling in numbers that they 've actually stopped showing up in stockholm , and five showed up in the u.k. just recently .
but the sargasso sea , the same way it aggregates sargassum weed , actually is pulling in the plastic from throughout the region .
this picture does n't exactly show the plastics that i would like it to show , because i have n't been out there myself .
but there has just been a study that was released in february that showed there are 200,000 pieces of plastic per square - kilometer now floating in the surface of the sargasso sea , and that is affecting the habitat for the many species in their juvenile stages who come to the sargasso sea for its protection and its food .
the sargasso sea is also a wondrous place for the aggregation of these unique species that have developed to mimic the sargassum habitat .
it also provides a special habitat for these flying fish to lay their eggs .
but what i 'd like to get from this picture is that we truly do have an opportunity to launch a global initiative for protection .
thus , the government of bermuda has recognized the need and its responsibility as having some of the sargasso sea within its national jurisdiction -- but the vast majority is beyond -- to help spearhead a movement to achieve protection for this vital area .
spinning down to someplace a little bit cooler than here right now : the ross sea in the southern ocean .
it 's actually a bay .
it 's considered high seas , because the continent has been put off limits to territorial claims .
so anything in the water is treated as if it 's the high seas .
but what makes the ross sea important is the vast sea of pack ice that in the spring and summer provides a wealth of phytoplankton and krill that supports what , till recently , has been a virtually intact near - shore ecosystem .
but unfortunately , ccamlr , the regional commission in charge of conserving and managing fish stocks and other living marine resources , is unfortunately starting to give in to fishing interests and has authorized the expansion of toothfish fisheries in the region .
the captain of a new zealand vessel who was just down there is reporting a significant decline in the number of the ross sea killer whales , who are directly dependent on the antarctic toothfish as their main source of food .
so what we need to do is to stand up boldly , singly and together , to push governments , to push regional fisheries management organizations , to declare our right to declare certain areas off - limits to high seas fishing , so that the freedom to fish no longer means the freedom to fish anywhere and anytime .
coming closer to here , the costa rica dome is a recently discovered area -- potentially year - round habitat for blue whales .
there 's enough food there to last them the summer and the winter long .
but what 's unusual about the costa rica dome is , in fact , it 's not a permanent place .
it 's an oceanographic phenomenon that shifts in time and space on a seasonal basis .
so , in fact , it 's not permanently in the high seas .
it 's not permanently in the exclusive economic zones of these five central american countries , but it moves with the season .
as such , it does create a challenge to protect , but we also have a challenge protecting the species that move along with it .
we can use the same technologies that fishers use to identify where the species are , in order to close the area when it 's most vulnerable , which may , in some cases , be year - round .
getting closer to shore , where we are , this was in fact taken in the galapagos .
many species are headed through this region , which is why there 's been so much attention put into conservation of the eastern tropical pacific seascape .
this is the initiative that 's been coordinated by conservation international with a variety of partners and governments to actually try to bring integrated management regime throughout the area .
that is , it provides a wonderful example of where you can go with a real regional initiative .
it 's protecting five world heritage sites .
unfortunately , the world heritage convention does not recognize the need to protect areas beyond national jurisdiction , at present .
so a place like the costa rica dome could not technically qualify the time it 's in the high seas .
so what we 've been suggesting is that we either need to amend the world heritage convention , so that it can adopt and urge universal protection of these world heritage sites , or we need to change the name and call it half - the - world heritage convention .
but what we also know is that species like these sea turtles do not stay put in the eastern tropical pacific seascape .
these happen to go down to a vast south pacific gyre , where they spend most of their time and often end up getting hooked like this , or as bycatch .
so what i 'd really like to suggest is that we need to scale - up .
we need to work locally , but we also need to work ocean - basin - wide .
we have the tools and technologies now to enable us to take a broader ocean - basin - wide initiative .
we 've heard about the tagging of pacific predators project , one of the 17 census of marine life projects .
it 's provided us data like this , of tiny , little sooty shearwaters that make the entire ocean basin their home .
they fly 65,000 kilometers in less than a year .
so we have the tools and treasures coming from the census of marine life .
and its culminating year that 's going to be launched in october .
so stay tuned for further information .
what i find so exciting is that the census of marine life has looked at more than the tagging of pacific predators ; it 's also looked in the really unexplored mid - water column , where creatures like this flying sea cucumber have been found .
and fortunately , we 've been able , as iucn , to team up with the census of marine life and many of the scientists working there to actually try to translate much of this information to policymakers .
we have the support of governments now behind us .
we 've been revealing this information through technical workshops .
and the exciting thing is that we do have sufficient information to move ahead to protect some of these significant hope spots , hotspots .
at the same time we 're saying , " yes , we need more . we need to move forward . "
but many of you have said , if you get these marine protected areas , or a reasonable regime for high seas fisheries management in place , how are you going to enforce it ?
which leads me to my second passion besides ocean science , which is outer space technology .
i wanted to be an astronaut , so i 've constantly followed what are the tools available to monitor earth from outer space -- and that we have incredible tools like we 've been learning about , in terms of being able to follow tagged species throughout their life - cycles in the open ocean .
we can also tag and track fishing vessels .
many already have transponders on board that allow us to find out where they are and even what they 're doing .
but not all the vessels have those to date .
it does not take too much rocket science to actually try to create new laws to mandate , if you 're going to have the privilege of accessing our high seas resources , we need to know -- someone needs to know -- where you are and what you 're doing .
so it brings me to my main take - home message , which is we can avert a tragedy of the commons .
we can stop the collision course of 50 percent of the planet with the high seas .
but we need to think broad - scale . we need to think globally .
we need to change how we actually go about managing these resources .
we need to get the new paradigm of precaution and respect .
at the same time , we need to think locally , which is the joy and marvel of sylvia 's hope spot wish , is that we can shine a spotlight on many of these previously unknown areas , and to bring people to the table , if you will , to actually make them feel part of this community that truly has a stake in their future management .
and third is that we need to look at ocean - basin - wide management .
our species are ocean - basin - wide .
many of the deep - sea communities have genetic distribution that goes ocean - basin - wide .
we need to better understand , but we also need to start to manage and protect .
and in order to do that , you also need ocean - basin management regimes .
that is , we have regional management regimes within the exclusive economic zone , but we need to scale these up , we need to build their capacity , so they 're like the southern ocean , where they do have the two - pronged fisheries and conservation organization .
so with that , i would just like to sincerely thank and honor sylvia earle for her wish , for it is helping us to put a face on the high seas and the deep seas beyond national jurisdiction .
it 's helping to bring an incredible group of talented people together to really try to solve and penetrate these problems that have created our obstacles to management and rational use of this area that was once so far away and remote .
so on this tour , i hope i provided you with a new perspective of the high seas : one , that it is our home too , and that we need to work together if we are to make this a sustainable ocean future for us all .
thank you .
bruce aylward : how we 'll stop polio for good 
 polio is almost completely eradicated . but as bruce aylward says : almost is n't good enough with a disease this terrifying . aylward lays out the plan to continue the scientific miracle that ended polio in most of the world -- and to snuff it out everywhere , forever .
i want to share with you over the next 18 minutes a pretty incredible idea .
actually , it 's a really big idea .
but to get us started , i want to ask if everyone could just close your eyes for two seconds and try and think of a technology or a bit of science that you think has changed the world .
now i bet , in this audience , you 're thinking of some really incredible technology , some stuff that i have n't even heard of , i 'm absolutely sure .
but i 'm also sure , pretty sure , that absolutely nobody is thinking of this .
this is a polio vaccine .
and it 's a great thing actually that nobody 's had to think about it here today because it means that we can take this for granted .
this is a great technology .
we can take it completely for granted .
but it was n't always that way .
even here in california , if we were to go back just a few years , it was a very different story .
people were terrified of this disease .
they were terrified of polio , and it would cause public panic .
and it was because of scenes like this .
in this scene , people are living in an iron lung .
these are people who were perfectly healthy two or three days before , and then two days later , they can no longer breathe , and this polio virus has paralyzed not only their arms and their legs , but also their breathing muscles .
and they were going to spend the rest of their lives , usually , in this iron lung to breathe for them .
this disease was terrifying .
there was no cure , and there was no vaccine .
the disease was so terrifying that the president of the united states launched an extraordinary national effort to find a way to stop it .
twenty years later , they succeeded and developed the polio vaccine .
it was hailed as a scientific miracle in the late 1950s .
finally , a vaccine that could stop this awful disease , and here in the united states it had an incredible impact .
as you can see , the virus stopped , and it stopped very , very fast .
but this was n't the case everywhere in the world .
and it happened so fast in the united states , however , that even just last month jon stewart said this : jon stewart : where is polio still active ?
because i thought that had been eradicated in the way that smallpox had been eradicated .
bruce aylward : oops . jon , polio 's almost been eradicated .
but the reality is that polio still exists today .
we made this map for jon to try to show him exactly where polio still exists .
this is the picture .
there 's not very much left in the world .
but the reason there 's not very much left is because there 's been an extraordinary public / private partnership working behind the scenes , almost unknown , i 'm sure to most of you here today .
it 's been working for 20 years to try and eradicate this disease , and it 's got it down to these few cases that you can see here on this graphic .
but just last year , we had an incredible shock and realized that almost just is n't good enough with a virus like polio .
and this is the reason : in two countries that had n't had this disease for more than probably a decade , on opposite sides of the globe , there was suddenly terrible polio outbreaks .
hundreds of people were paralyzed .
hundreds of people died -- children as well as adults .
and in both cases , we were able to use genetic sequencing to look at the polio viruses , and we could tell these viruses were not from these countries .
they had come from thousands of miles away .
and in one case , it originated on another continent .
and not only that , but when they came into these countries , then they got on commercial jetliners probably and they traveled even farther to other places like russia , where , for the first time in over a decade last year , children were crippled and paralyzed by a disease that they had not seen for years .
now all of these outbreaks that i just showed you , these are under control now , and it looks like they 'll probably stop very , very quickly .
but the message was very clear .
polio is still a devastating , explosive disease .
it 's just happening in another part of the world .
and our big idea is that the scientific miracle of this decade should be the complete eradication of poliomyelitis .
so i want to tell you a little bit about what this partnership , the polio partnership , is trying to do .
we 're not trying to control polio .
we 're not trying to get it down to just a few cases , because this disease is like a root fire ; it can explode again if you do n't snuff it out completely .
so what we 're looking for is a permanent solution .
we want a world in which every child , just like you guys , can take for granted a polio - free world .
so we 're looking for a permanent solution , and this is where we get lucky .
this is one of the very few viruses in the world where there are big enough cracks in its armor that we can try to do something truly extraordinary .
this virus can only survive in people .
it can n't live for a very long time in people .
it does n't survive in the environment hardly at all .
and we 've got pretty good vaccines , as i 've just showed you .
so we are trying to wipe out this virus completely .
what the polio eradication program is trying to do is to kill the virus itself that causes polio everywhere on earth .
now we do n't have a great track record when it comes to doing something like this , to eradicating diseases .
it 's been tried six times in the last century , and it 's been successful exactly once .
and this is because disease eradication , it 's still the venture capital of public health .
the risks are massive , but the pay - off -- economic , humanitarian , motivational -- it 's absolutely huge .
one congressman here in the united states thinks that the entire investment that the u.s. put into smallpox eradication pays itself off every 26 days -- in foregone treatment costs and vaccination costs .
and if we can finish polio eradication , the poorest countries in the world are going to save over 50 billion dollars in the next 25 years alone .
so those are the kind of stakes that we 're after .
but smallpox eradication was hard ; it was very , very hard .
and polio eradication , in many ways , is even tougher , and there 's a few reasons for that .
the first is that , when we started trying to eradicate polio about 20 years ago , more than twice as many countries were infected than had been when we started off with smallpox .
and there were more than 10 times as many people living in these countries .
so it was a massive effort .
the second challenge we had was -- in contrast to the smallpox vaccine , which was very stable , and a single dose protected you for life -- the polio vaccine is incredibly fragile .
it deteriorates so quickly in the tropics that we 've had to put this special vaccine monitor on every single vial so that it will change very quickly when it 's exposed to too much heat , and we can tell that it 's not a good vaccine to use on a child -- it 's not potent ; it 's not going to protect them .
even then , kids need many doses of the vaccine .
but the third challenge we have -- and probably even bigger one , the biggest challenge -- is that , in contrast to smallpox where you could always see your enemy -- every single person almost who was infected with smallpox had this telltale rash .
so you could get around the disease ; you could vaccinate around the disease and cut it off .
with polio it 's almost completely different .
the vast majority of people who are infected with the polio virus show absolutely no sign of the disease .
so you can n't see the enemy most of the time , and as a result , we 've needed a very different approach to eradicate polio than what was done with smallpox .
we 've had to create one of the largest social movements in history .
there 's over 10 million people , probably 20 million people , largely volunteers , who have been working over the last 20 years in what has now been called the largest internationally - coordinated operation in peacetime .
these people , these 20 million people , vaccinate over 500 million children every single year , multiple times at the peak of our operation .
now giving the polio vaccine is simple .
it 's just two drops , like that .
but reaching 500 million people is much , much tougher .
and these vaccinators , these volunteers , they have got to dive headlong into some of the toughest , densest urban slums in the world .
they 've got to trek under sweltering suns to some of the most remote , difficult to reach places in the world .
and they also have to dodge bullets , because we have got to operate during shaky cease - fires and truces to try and vaccinate children , even in areas affected by conflict .
one reporter who was watching our program in somalia about five years ago -- a place which has eradicated polio , not once , but twice , because they got reinfected .
he was sitting outside of the road , watching one of these polio campaigns unfold , and a few months later he wrote : " this is foreign aid at its most heroic . "
and these heroes , they come from every walk of life , all sorts of backgrounds .
but one of the most extraordinary is rotary international .
this is a group whose million - strong army of volunteers have been working to eradicate polio for over 20 years .
they 're right at the center of the whole thing .
now it took years to build up the infrastructure for polio eradication -- more than 15 years , much longer than it should have -- but once it was built , the results were striking .
within a couple of years , every country that started polio eradication rapidly eradicated all three of their polio viruses , with the exception of four countries that you see here .
and in each of those , it was only part of the country .
and then , by 1999 , one of the three polio viruses that we were trying to eradicate had been completely eradicated worldwide -- proof of concept .
and then today , there 's been a 99 percent reduction -- greater than 99 percent reduction -- in the number of children who are being paralyzed by this awful disease .
when we started , over 20 years ago , 1,000 children were being paralyzed every single day by this virus .
last year , it was 1,000 .
and at the same time , the polio eradication program has been working to help with a lot of other areas .
it 's been working to help control pandemic flu , sars for example .
it 's also tried to save children by doing other things -- giving vitamin a drops , giving measles shots , giving bed nets against malaria even during some of these campaigns .
but the most exciting thing that the polio eradication program has been doing has been to force us , the international community , to reach every single child , every single community , the most vulnerable people in the world , with the most basic of health services , irrespective of geography , poverty , culture and even conflict .
so things were looking very exciting , and then about five years ago , this virus , this ancient virus , started to fight back .
the first problem we ran into was that , in these last four countries , the strongholds of this virus , we just could n't seem to get the virus rooted out .
and then to make the matters even worse , the virus started to spread out of these four places , especially northern india and northern nigeria , into much of africa , asia , and even into europe , causing horrific outbreaks in places that had not seen this disease for decades .
and then , in one of the most important , tenacious and toughest reservoirs of the polio virus in the world , we found that our vaccine was working half as well as it should have .
in conditions like this , the vaccine just could n't get the grip it needed to in the guts of these children and protect them the way that it needed to .
now at that time , there was a great , as you can imagine , frustration -- let 's call it frustration -- it started to grow very , very quickly .
and all of a sudden , some very important voices in the world of public health started to say , " hang on .
we should abandon this idea of eradication .
let 's settle for control -- that 's good enough . "
now as seductive as the idea of control sounds , it 's a false premise .
the brutal truth is , if we do n't have the will or the skill , or even the money that we need to reach children , the most vulnerable children in the world , with something as simple as an oral polio vaccine , then pretty soon , more than 200,000 children are again going to be paralyzed by this disease every single year .
there 's absolutely no question .
these are children like umar .
umar is seven years old , and he 's from northern nigeria .
he lives in a family home there with his eight brothers and sisters .
umar also has polio .
umar was paralyzed for life .
his right leg was paralyzed in 2004 .
this leg , his right leg , now takes an awful beating because he has to half - crawl , because it 's faster to move that way to keep up with his friends , keep up with his brothers and sisters , than to get up on his crutches and walk .
but umar is a fantastic student . he 's an incredible kid .
as you probably can n't see the detail here , but this is his report card , and you 'll see , he 's got perfect scores .
he got 100 percent in all the important things , like nursery rhymes , for example there .
but you know i 'd love to be able to tell you that umar is a typical kid with polio these days , but it 's not true .
umar is an exceptional kid in exceptional circumstances .
the reality of polio today is something very different .
polio strikes the poorest communities in the world .
it leaves their children paralyzed , and it drags their families deeper into poverty , because they 're desperately searching and they 're desperately spending the little bit of savings that they have , trying in vain to find a cure for their children .
we think children deserve better .
and so when the going got really tough in the polio eradication program about two years ago , when people were saying , " we should call it off , " the polio partnership decided to buckle down once again and try and find innovative new solutions , new ways to get to the children that we were missing again and again .
in northern india , we started mapping the cases using satellite imaging like this , so that we could guide our investments and vaccinator shelters , so we could get to the millions of children on the koshi river basin where there are no other health services .
in northern nigeria , the political leaders and the traditional muslim leaders , they got directly involved in the program to help solve the problems of logistics and community confidence .
and now they 've even started using these devices -- speaking of cool technology -- these little devices , little gis trackers like this , which they put into the vaccine carriers of their vaccinators .
and then they can track them , and at the end of the day , they look and see , did these guys get every single street , every single house .
this is the kind of commitment now we 're seeing to try and reach all of the children we 've been missing .
and in afghanistan , we 're trying new approaches -- access negotiators .
we 're working closely with the international committee of the red cross to ensure that we can reach every child .
but as we tried these extraordinary things , as people went to this trouble to try and rework their tactics , we went back to the vaccine -- it 's a 50 - year - old vaccine -- and we thought , surely we can make a better vaccine , so that when they finally get to these kids , we can have a better bang for our buck .
and this started an incredible collaboration with industry , and within six months , we were testing a new polio vaccine that targeted , just two years ago , the last two types of polio in the world .
now june the ninth , 2009 , we got the first results from the first trial with this vaccine , and it turned out to be a game - changer .
the new vaccine had twice the impact on these last couple of viruses as the old vaccine had , and we immediately started using this .
well , in a couple of months we had to get it out of production .
and it started rolling off the production lines and into the mouths of children around the world .
and we did n't start with the easy places .
the first place this vaccine was used was in southern afghanistan , because it 's in places like that where kids are going to benefit the most from technologies like this .
now here at ted , over the last couple of days , i 've seen people challenging the audience again and again to believe in the impossible .
so this morning at about seven o'clock , i decided that we 'd try to drive chris and the production crew here berserk by downloading all of our data from india again , so that you could see something that 's just unfolding today , which proves that the impossible is possible .
and only two years ago , people were saying that this is impossible .
now remember , northern india is the perfect storm when it comes to polio .
over 500,000 children are born in the two states that have never stopped polio -- uttar pradesh and bihar -- 500,000 children every single month .
sanitation is terrible , and our old vaccine , you remember , worked half as well as it should have .
and yet , the impossible is happening .
today marks exactly six months -- and for the first time in history , not a single child has been paralyzed in uttar pradesh or bihar .
india 's not unique .
in umar 's home country of nigeria , a 95 percent reduction in the number of children paralyzed by polio last year .
and in the last six months , we 've had less places reinfected by polio than at any other time in history .
ladies and gentlemen , with a combination of smart people , smart technology and smart investments , polio can now be eradicated anywhere .
we have major challenges , you can imagine , to finish this job , but as you 've also seen , it 's doable , it has great secondary benefits , and polio eradication is a great buy .
and as long as any child anywhere is paralyzed by this virus , it 's a stark reminder that we are failing , as a society , to reach children with the most basic of services .
and for that reason , polio eradication : it 's the ultimate in equity and it 's the ultimate in social justice .
the huge social movement that 's been involved in polio eradication is ready to do way more for these children .
it 's ready to reach them with bed nets , with other things .
but capitalizing on their enthusiasm , capitalizing on their energy means finishing the job that they started 20 years ago .
finishing polio is a smart thing to do , and it 's the right thing to do .
now we 're in tough times economically .
but as david cameron of the united kingdom said about a month ago when he was talking about polio , " there 's never a wrong time to do the right thing . "
finishing polio eradication is the right thing to do .
and we are at a crossroads right now in this great effort over the last 20 years .
we have a new vaccine , we have new resolve , and we have new tactics .
we have the chance to write an entirely new polio - free chapter in human history .
but if we blink now , we will lose forever the chance to eradicate an ancient disease .
here 's a great idea to spread : end polio now .
help us tell the story .
help us build the momentum so that very soon every child , every parent everywhere can also take for granted a polio - free life forever .
thank you .
bill gates : well bruce , where do you think the toughest places are going to be ?
where would you say we need to be the smartest ?
b the four places where you saw , that we 've never stopped -- northern nigeria , northern india , the southern corner of afghanistan and bordering areas of pakistan -- they 're going to be the toughest .
but the interesting thing is , of those three , india 's looking real good , as you just saw in the data .
and afghanistan , afghanistan , we think has probably stopped polio repeatedly .
it keeps getting reinfected .
so the tough ones : going to get the top of nigeria finished and getting pakistan finished .
they 're going to be the tough ones .
now what about the money ?
give us a sense of how much the campaign costs a year .
and is it easy to raise that money ?
and what 's it going to be like the next couple of years ?
b it 's interesting .
we spend right now about 750 million to 800 million dollars a year .
that 's what it costs to reach 500 million children .
it sounds like a lot of money ; it is a lot of money .
but when you 're reaching 500 million children multiple times -- 20 , 30 cents to reach a child -- that 's not very much money .
but right now we do n't have enough of that .
we have a big gap in that money . we 're cutting corners , and every time we cut corners , more places get infected that should n't have , and it just slows us down .
and that great buy costs us a little bit more .
well , hopefully we 'll get the word out , and the governments will keep their generosity up .
so good luck . we 're all in this with you .
thank you .
frank warren : half a million secrets 
 " secrets can take many forms -- they can be shocking , or silly , or soulful . " frank warren , the founder of postsecret.com , shares some of the half - million secrets that strangers have mailed him on postcards .
hi , my name is frank , and i collect secrets .
it all started with a crazy idea in november of 2004 .
i printed up 3,000 self-addressed postcards , just like this .
they were blank on one side , and on the other side i listed some simple instructions .
i asked people to anonymously share an artful secret they 'd never told anyone before .
and i handed out these postcards randomly on the streets of washington , d.c. , not knowing what to expect .
but soon the idea began spreading virally .
people began to buy their own postcards and make their own postcards .
i started receiving secrets in my home mailbox , not just with postmarks from washington , d.c. , but from texas , california , vancouver , new zealand , iraq .
soon my crazy idea did n't seem so crazy .
postsecret.com is the most visited advertisement - free blog in the world .
and this is my postcard collection today .
you can see my wife struggling to stack a brick of postcards on a pyramid of over a half - million secrets .
what i 'd like to do now is share with you a very special handful of secrets from that collection , starting with this one .
" i found these stamps as a child , and i have been waiting all my life to have someone to send them to .
i never did have someone . "
secrets can take many forms .
they can be shocking or silly or soulful .
they can connect us to our deepest humanity or with people we 'll never meet .
maybe one of you sent this one in .
i do n't know .
this one does a great job of demonstrating the creativity that people have when they make and mail me a postcard .
this one obviously was made out of half a starbucks cup with a stamp and my home address written on the other side .
" dear birthmother , i have great parents .
i 've found love . i 'm happy . "
secrets can remind us of the countless human dramas , of frailty and heroism , playing out silently in the lives of people all around us even now .
" everyone who knew me before 9/11 believes i 'm dead . "
" i used to work with a bunch of uptight religious people , so sometimes i did n't wear panties , and just had a big smile and chuckled to myself . "
this next one takes a little explanation before i share it with you .
i love to speak on college campuses and share secrets and the stories with students .
and sometimes afterwards i 'll stick around and sign books and take photos with students .
and this next postcard was made out of one of those photos .
and i should also mention that , just like today , at that postsecret event , i was using a wireless microphone .
" your mic was n't off during sound check .
we all heard you pee . "
this was really embarrassing when it happened , until i realized it could have been worse .
right . you know what i 'm saying .
" inside this envelope is the ripped up remains of a suicide note i did n't use .
i feel like the happiest person on earth " " one of these men is the father of my son .
he pays me a lot to keep it a secret . "
" that saturday when you wondered where i was , well , i was getting your ring .
it 's in my pocket right now . "
i had this postcard posted on the postsecret blog two years ago on valentine 's day .
it was the very bottom , the last secret in the long column .
and it had n't been up for more than a couple hours before i received this exuberant email from the guy who mailed me this postcard .
and he said , " frank , i 've got to share with you this story that just played out in my life . "
he said , " my knees are still shaking . "
he said , " for three years , my girlfriend and i , we 've made it this sunday morning ritual to visit the postsecret blog together and read the secrets out loud .
i read some to her , she reads some to me . "
he says , " it 's really brought us closer together through the years .
and so when i discovered that you had posted my surprise proposal to my girlfriend at the very bottom , i was beside myself .
and i tried to act calm , not to give anything away .
and just like every sunday , we started reading the secrets out loud to each other . "
he said , " but this time it seemed like it was taking her forever to get through each one . "
but she finally did .
she got to that bottom secret , his proposal to her .
and he said , " she read it once and then she read it again . "
and she turned to him and said , " is that our cat ? "
and when she saw him , he was down on one knee , he had the ring out .
he popped the question , she said yes . it was a very happy ending .
so i emailed him back and i said , " please share with me an image , something , that i can share with the whole postsecret community and let everyone know your fairy tale ending . "
and he emailed me this picture .
" i found your camera at lollapalooza this summer .
i finally got the pictures developed and i 'd love to give them to you . "
this picture never got returned back to the people who lost it , but this secret has impacted many lives , starting with a student up in canada named matty .
matty was inspired by that secret to start his own website , a website called ifoundyourcamera .
matty invites people to mail him digital cameras that they 've found , memory sticks that have been lost with orphan photos .
and matty takes the pictures off these cameras and posts them on his website every week .
and people come to visit to see if they can identify a picture they 've lost or help somebody else get the photos back to them that they might be desperately searching for .
this one 's my favorite .
matty has found this ingenious way to leverage the kindness of strangers .
and it might seem like a simple idea , and it is , but the impact it can have on people 's lives can be huge .
matty shared with me an emotional email he received from the mother in that picture .
" that 's me , my husband and son .
the other pictures are of my very ill grandmother .
thank you for making your site .
these pictures mean more to me than you know .
my son 's birth is on this camera .
he turns four tomorrow . "
every picture that you see there and thousands of others have been returned back to the person who lost it -- sometimes crossing oceans , sometimes going through language barriers .
this is the last postcard i have to share with you today .
" when people i love leave voicemails on my phone i always save them in case they die tomorrow and i have no other way of hearing their voice ever again . "
when i posted this secret , dozens of people sent voicemail messages from their phones , sometimes ones they 'd been keeping for years , messages from family or friends who had died .
they said that by preserving those voices and sharing them , it helped them keep the spirit of their loved ones alive .
one young girl posted the last message she ever heard from her grandmother .
secrets can take many forms .
they can be shocking or silly or soulful .
they can connect us with our deepest humanity or with people we 'll never meet again .
voicemail recording : first saved voice message .
it 's somebody 's birthday today somebody 's birthday today the candles are lighted on somebody 's cake and we 're all invited for somebody 's sake you 're 21 years old today .
have a real happy birthday , and i love you .
i 'll say bye for now .
thank you .
thank you .
frank , that was beautiful , so touching .
have you ever sent yourself a postcard ?
have you ever sent in a secret to postsecret ?
i have one of my own secrets in every book .
i think in some ways , the reason i started the project , even though i did n't know it at the time , was because i was struggling with my own secrets .
and it was through crowd - sourcing , it was through the kindness that strangers were showing me , that i could uncover parts of my past that were haunting me .
and has anyone ever discovered which secret was yours in the book ?
has anyone in your life been able to tell ?
sometimes i share that information , yeah .
tony porter : a call to men 
 at tedwomen , tony porter makes a call to men everywhere : do n't " act like a man . " telling powerful stories from his own life , he shows how this mentality , drummed into so many men and boys , can lead men to disrespect , mistreat and abuse women and each other . his solution : break free of the " man box . " 
i grew up in new york city , between harlem and the bronx .
growing up as a boy , we were taught that men had to be tough , had to be strong , had to be courageous , dominating -- no pain , no emotions , with the exception of anger -- and definitely no fear ; that men are in charge , which means women are not ; that men lead , and you should just follow and do what we say ; that men are superior ; women are inferior ; that men are strong ; women are weak ; that women are of less value , property of men , and objects , particularly sexual objects .
i 've later come to know that to be the collective socialization of men , better known as the " man box . "
see this man box has in it all the ingredients of how we define what it means to be a man .
now i also want to say , without a doubt , there are some wonderful , wonderful , absolutely wonderful things about being a man .
but at the same time , there 's some stuff that 's just straight up twisted , and we really need to begin to challenge , look at it and really get in the process of deconstructing , redefining , what we come to know as manhood .
this is my two at home , kendall and jay .
they 're 11 and 12 .
kendall 's 15 months older than jay .
there was a period of time when my wife -- her name is tammie -- and i , we just got real busy and whip , bam , boom : kendall and jay .
and when they were about five and six , four and five , jay could come to me , come to me crying .
it did n't matter what she was crying about , she could get on my knee , she could snot my sleeve up , just cry , cry it out .
daddy 's got you . that 's all that 's important .
now kendall on the other hand -- and like i said , he 's only 15 months older than her -- he 'd come to me crying , it 's like as soon as i would hear him cry , a clock would go off .
i would give the boy probably about 30 seconds , which means , by the time he got to me , i was already saying things like , " why are you crying ?
hold your head up . look at me .
explain to me what 's wrong .
tell me what 's wrong . i can n't understand you .
why are you crying ? "
and out of my own frustration of my role and responsibility of building him up as a man to fit into these guidelines and these structures that are defining this man box , i would find myself saying things like , " just go in your room .
just go on , go on in your room .
sit down , get yourself together and come back and talk to me when you can talk to me like a -- " what ?
like a man .
and he 's five years old .
and as i grow in life , i would say to myself , " my god , what 's wrong with me ?
what am i doing ? why would i do this ? "
and i think back .
i think back to my father .
there was a time in my life where we had a very troubled experience in our family .
my brother , henry , he died tragically when we were teenagers .
we lived in new york city , as i said .
we lived in the bronx at the time , and the burial was in a place called long island , it was about two hours outside of the city .
and as we were preparing to come back from the burial , the cars stopped at the bathroom to let folks take care of themselves before the long ride back to the city .
and the limousine empties out .
my mother , my sister , my auntie , they all get out , but my father and i stayed in the limousine , and no sooner than the women got out , he burst out crying .
he did n't want cry in front of me , but he knew he was n't going to make it back to the city , and it was better me than to allow himself to express these feelings and emotions in front of the women .
and this is a man who , 10 minutes ago , had just put his teenage son in the ground -- something i just can n't even imagine .
the thing that sticks with me the most is that he was apologizing to me for crying in front of me , and at the same time , he was also giving me props , lifting me up , for not crying .
i come to also look at this as this fear that we have as men , this fear that just has us paralyzed , holding us hostage to this man box .
i can remember speaking to a 12 - year - old boy , a football player , and i asked him , i said , " how would you feel if , in front of all the players , your coach told you you were playing like a girl ? "
now i expected him to say something like , i 'd be sad ; i 'd be mad ; i 'd be angry , or something like that .
no , the boy said to me -- the boy said to me , " it would destroy me . "
and i said to myself , " god , if it would destroy him to be called a girl , what are we then teaching him about girls ? "
it took me back to a time when i was about 12 years old .
i grew up in tenement buildings in the inner city .
at this time we 're living in the bronx , and in the building next to where i lived there was a guy named johnny .
he was about 16 years old , and we were all about 12 years old -- younger guys .
and he was hanging out with all us younger guys .
and this guy , he was up to a lot of no good .
he was the kind of kid who parents would have to wonder , " what is this 16 - year - old boy doing with these 12 - year - old boys ? "
and he did spend a lot of time up to no good .
he was a troubled kid .
his mother had died from a heroin overdose .
he was being raised by his grandmother .
his father was n't on the set .
his grandmother had two jobs .
he was home alone a lot .
but i 've got to tell you , we young guys , we looked up to this dude , man .
he was cool . he was fine .
that 's what the sisters said , " he was fine . "
he was having sex .
we all looked up to him .
so one day , i 'm out in front of the house doing something -- just playing around , doing something -- i do n't know what .
he looks out his window ; he calls me upstairs ; he said , " hey anthony . "
they called me anthony growing up as a kid .
" hey anthony , come on upstairs . "
johnny call , you go .
so i run right upstairs .
as he opens the door , he says to me , " do you want some ? "
now i immediately knew what he meant .
because for me growing up at that time , and our relationship with this man box , " do you want some ? " meant one of two things : sex or drugs -- and we were n't doing drugs .
now my box , my card , my man box card , was immediately in jeopardy .
two things : one , i never had sex .
we do n't talk about that as men .
you only tell your dearest , closest friend , sworn to secrecy for life , the first time you had sex .
for everybody else , we go around like we 've been having sex since we were two .
there ai n't no first time .
the other thing i could n't tell him is that i did n't want any .
that 's even worse . we 're supposed to always be on the prowl .
women are objects , especially sexual objects .
anyway , so i could n't tell him any of that .
so , like my mother would say , make a long story short , i just simply said to johnny , " yes . "
he told me to go in his room .
i go in his room . on his bed is a girl from the neighborhood named sheila .
she 's 16 years old .
she 's nude .
she 's what i know today to be mentally ill , higher - functioning at times than others .
we had a whole choice of inappropriate names for her .
anyway , johnny had just gotten through having sex with her .
well actually , he raped her , but he would say he had sex with her .
because , while sheila never said no , she also never said yes .
so he was offering me the opportunity to do the same .
so when i go in the room , i close the door .
folks , i 'm petrified .
i stand with my back to the door so johnny can n't bust in the room and see that i 'm not doing anything , and i stand there long enough that i could have actually done something .
so now i 'm no longer trying to figure out what i 'm going to do ; i 'm trying to figure out how i 'm going to get out of this room .
so in my 12 years of wisdom , i zip my pants down , i walk out into the room , and lo and behold to me , while i was in the room with sheila , johnny was back at the window calling guys up .
so now there 's a living room full of guys .
it was like the waiting room in the doctor 's office .
and they asked me how was it , and i say to them , " it was good , " and i zip my pants up in front of them , and i head for the door .
now i say this all with remorse , and i was feeling a tremendous amount of remorse at that time , but i was conflicted , because , while i was feeling remorse , i was excited , because i did n't get caught .
but i knew i felt bad about what was happening .
this fear , getting outside the man box , totally enveloped me .
it was way more important to me , about me and my man box card than about sheila and what was happening to her .
see collectively , we as men are taught to have less value in women , to view them as property and the objects of men .
we see that as an equation that equals violence against women .
we as men , good men , the large majority of men , we operate on the foundation of this whole collective socialization .
we kind of see ourselves separate , but we 're very much a part of it .
you see , we have to come to understand that less value , property and objectification is the foundation and the violence can n't happen without it .
so we 're very much a part of the solution as well as the problem .
the center for disease control says that men 's violence against women is at epidemic proportions , is the number one health concern for women in this country and abroad .
so quickly , i 'd like to just say , this is the love of my life , my daughter jay .
the world i envision for her -- how do i want men to be acting and behaving ?
i need you on board . i need you with me .
i need you working with me and me working with you on how we raise our sons and teach them to be men -- that it 's okay to not be dominating , that it 's okay to have feelings and emotions , that it 's okay to promote equality , that it 's okay to have women who are just friends and that 's it , that it 's okay to be whole , that my liberation as a man is tied to your liberation as a woman .
i remember asking a nine - year - old boy , i asked a nine - year - old boy , " what would life be like for you , if you did n't have to adhere to this man box ? "
he said to me , " i would be free . "
thank you folks .
stanley mcchrystal : listen , learn ... then lead 
 four - star general stanley mcchrystal shares what he learned about leadership over his decades in the military . how can you build a sense of shared purpose among people of many ages and skill sets ? by listening and learning -- and addressing the possibility of failure .
ten years ago , on a tuesday morning , i conducted a parachute jump at fort bragg , north carolina .
it was a routine training jump , like many more i 'd done since i became a paratrooper 27 years before .
we went down to the airfield early because this is the army and you always go early .
you do some routine refresher training , and then you go to put on your parachute and a buddy helps you .
and you put on the t - 10 parachute .
and you 're very careful how you put the straps , particularly the leg straps because they go between your legs .
and then you put on your reserve , and then you put on your heavy rucksack .
and then a jumpmaster comes , and he 's an experienced nco in parachute operations .
he checks you out , he grabs your adjusting straps and he tightens everything so that your chest is crushed , your shoulders are crushed down , and , of course , he 's tightened so your voice goes up a couple octaves as well .
then you sit down , and you wait a little while , because this is the army .
then you load the aircraft , and then you stand up and you get on , and you kind of lumber to the aircraft like this , in a line of people , and you sit down on canvas seats on either side of the aircraft .
and you wait a little bit longer , because this is the air force teaching the army how to wait .
then you take off .
and it 's painful enough now -- and i think it 's designed this way -- it 's painful enough so you want to jump .
you did n't really want to jump , but you want out .
so you get in the aircraft , you 're flying along , and at 20 minutes out , these jumpmasters start giving you commands .
they give 20 minutes -- that 's a time warning .
you sit there , ok .
then they give you 10 minutes .
and of course , you 're responding with all of these .
and that 's to boost everybody 's confidence , to show that you 're not scared .
then they give you , " get ready . "
then they go , " outboard personnel , stand up . "
if you 're an outboard personnel , now you stand up .
if you 're an inboard personnel , stand up .
and then you hook up , and you hook up your static line .
and at that point , you think , " hey , guess what ?
i 'm probably going to jump .
there 's no way to get out of this at this point . "
you go through some additional checks , and then they open the door .
and this was that tuesday morning in september , and it was pretty nice outside .
so nice air comes flowing in .
the jumpmasters start to check the door .
and then when it 's time to go , a green light goes and the jumpmaster goes , " go . "
the first guy goes , and you 're just in line , and you just kind of lumber to the door .
jump is a misnomer ; you fall .
you fall outside the door , you 're caught in the slipstream .
the first thing you do is lock into a tight body position -- head down in your chest , your arms extended , put over your reserve parachute .
you do that because , 27 years before , an airborne sergeant had taught me to do that .
i have no idea whether it makes any difference , but he seemed to make sense , and i was n't going to test the hypothesis that he 'd be wrong .
and then you wait for the opening shock for your parachute to open .
if you do n't get an opening shock , you do n't get a parachute -- you 've got a whole new problem set .
but typically you do ; typically it opens .
and of course , if your leg straps are n't set right , at that point you get another little thrill .
boom .
so then you look around , you 're under a canopy and you say , " this is good . "
now you prepare for the inevitable .
you are going to hit the ground .
you can n't delay that much .
and you really can n't decide where you hit very much , because they pretend you can steer , but you 're being delivered .
so you look around , where you 're going to land , you try to make yourself ready .
and then as you get close , you lower your rucksack below you on a lowering line , so that it 's not on you when you land , and you prepare to do a parachute - landing fall .
now the army teaches you to do five points of performance -- the toes of your feet , your calves , your thighs , your buttocks and your push - up muscles .
it 's this elegant little land , twist and roll .
and that 's not going to hurt .
in 30 - some years of jumping , i never did one .
i always landed like a watermelon out of a third floor window .
and as soon as i hit , the first thing i did is i 'd see if i 'd broken anything that i needed .
i 'd shake my head , and i 'd ask myself the eternal question : " why did n't i go into banking ? "
and i 'd look around , and then i 'd see another paratrooper , a young guy or girl , and they 'd have pulled out their m4 carbine and they 'd be picking up their equipment .
they 'd be doing everything that we had taught them .
and i realized that , if they had to go into combat , they would do what we had taught them and they would follow leaders .
and i realized that , if they came out of combat , it would be because we led them well .
and i was hooked again on the importance of what i did .
so now i do that tuesday morning jump , but it 's not any jump -- that was september 11th , 2001 .
and when we took off from the airfield , america was at peace .
when we landed on the drop - zone , everything had changed .
and what we thought about the possibility of those young soldiers going into combat as being theoretical was now very , very real -- and leadership seemed important .
but things had changed ; i was a 46 - year - old brigadier general .
i 'd been successful , but things changed so much that i was going to have to make some significant changes , and on that morning , i did n't know it .
i was raised with traditional stories of leadership : robert e . lee , john buford at gettysburg .
and i also was raised with personal examples of leadership .
this was my father in vietnam .
and i was raised to believe that soldiers were strong and wise and brave and faithful ; they did n't lie , cheat , steal or abandon their comrades .
and i still believe real leaders are like that .
but in my first 25 years of career , i had a bunch of different experiences .
one of my first battalion commanders , i worked in his battalion for 18 months and the only conversation he ever had with lt . mcchrystal was at mile 18 of a 25 - mile road march , and he chewed my ass for about 40 seconds .
and i 'm not sure that was real interaction .
but then a couple of years later , when i was a company commander , i went out to the national training center .
and we did an operation , and my company did a dawn attack -- you know , the classic dawn attack : you prepare all night , move to the line of departure .
and i had an armored organization at that point .
we move forward , and we get wiped out -- i mean , wiped out immediately .
the enemy did n't break a sweat doing it .
and after the battle , they bring this mobile theater and they do what they call an " after action review " to teach you what you 've done wrong .
sort of leadership by humiliation .
they put a big screen up , and they take you through everything : " and then you did n't do this , and you did n't do this , etc. "
i walked out feeling as low as a snake 's belly in a wagon rut .
and i saw my battalion commander , because i had let him down .
and i went up to apologize to him , and he said , " stanley , i thought you did great . "
and in one sentence , he lifted me , put me back on my feet , and taught me that leaders can let you fail and yet not let you be a failure .
when 9/11 came , 46 - year - old brig . gen . mcchrystal sees a whole new world .
first , the things that are obvious , that you 're familiar with : the environment changed -- the speed , the scrutiny , the sensitivity of everything now is so fast , sometimes it evolves faster than people have time to really reflect on it .
but everything we do is in a different context .
more importantly , the force that i led was spread over more than 20 countries .
and instead of being able to get all the key leaders for a decision together in a single room and look them in the eye and build their confidence and get trust from them , i 'm now leading a force that 's dispersed , and i 've got to use other techniques .
i 've got to use video teleconferences , i 've got to use chat , i 've got to use email , i 've got to use phone calls -- i 've got to use everything i can , not just for communication , but for leadership .
a 22 - year - old individual operating alone , thousands of miles from me , has got to communicate to me with confidence .
i have to have trust in them and vice versa .
and i also have to build their faith .
and that 's a new kind of leadership for me .
we had one operation where we had to coordinate it from multiple locations .
an emerging opportunity came -- did n't have time to get everybody together .
so we had to get complex intelligence together , we had to line up the ability to act .
it was sensitive , we had to go up the chain of command , convince them that this was the right thing to do and do all of this on electronic medium .
we failed .
the mission did n't work .
and so now what we had to do is i had to reach out to try to rebuild the trust of that force , rebuild their confidence -- me and them , and them and me , and our seniors and us as a force -- all without the ability to put a hand on a shoulder .
entirely new requirement .
also , the people had changed .
you probably think that the force that i led was all steely - eyed commandos with big knuckle fists carrying exotic weapons .
in reality , much of the force i led looked exactly like you .
it was men , women , young , old -- not just from military ; from different organizations , many of them detailed to us just from a handshake .
and so instead of giving orders , you 're now building consensus and you 're building a sense of shared purpose .
probably the biggest change was understanding that the generational difference , the ages , had changed so much .
i went down to be with a ranger platoon on an operation in afghanistan , and on that operation , a sergeant in the platoon had lost about half his arm throwing a taliban hand grenade back at the enemy after it had landed in his fire team .
we talked about the operation , and then at the end i did what i often do with a force like that .
i asked , " where were you on 9/11 ? "
and one young ranger in the back -- his hair 's tousled and his face is red and windblown from being in combat in the cold afghan wind -- he said , " sir , i was in the sixth grade . "
and it reminded me that we 're operating a force that must have shared purpose and shared consciousness , and yet he has different experiences , in many cases a different vocabulary , a completely different skill set in terms of digital media than i do and many of the other senior leaders .
and yet , we need to have that shared sense .
it also produced something which i call an inversion of expertise , because we had so many changes at the lower levels in technology and tactics and whatnot , that suddenly the things that we grew up doing was n't what the force was doing anymore .
so how does a leader stay credible and legitimate when they have n't done what the people you 're leading are doing ?
and it 's a brand new leadership challenge .
and it forced me to become a lot more transparent , a lot more willing to listen , a lot more willing to be reverse - mentored from lower .
and yet , again , you 're not all in one room .
then another thing .
there 's an effect on you and on your leaders .
there 's an impact , it 's cumulative .
you do n't reset , or recharge your battery every time .
i stood in front of a screen one night in iraq with one of my senior officers and we watched a firefight from one of our forces .
and i remembered his son was in our force .
and i said , " john , where 's your son ? and how is he ? "
and he said , " sir , he 's fine . thanks for asking . "
i said , " where is he now ? "
and he pointed at the screen , he said , " he 's in that firefight . "
think about watching your brother , father , daughter , son , wife in a firefight in real time and you can n't do anything about it .
think about knowing that over time .
and it 's a new cumulative pressure on leaders .
and you have to watch and take care of each other .
i probably learned the most about relationships .
i learned they are the sinew which hold the force together .
i grew up much of my career in the ranger regiment .
and every morning in the ranger regiment , every ranger -- and there are more than 2,000 of them -- says a six - stanza ranger creed .
you may know one line of it , it says , " i 'll never leave a fallen comrade to fall into the hands of the enemy . "
and it 's not a mindless mantra , and it 's not a poem .
it 's a promise .
every ranger promises every other ranger , " no matter what happens , no matter what it costs me , if you need me , i 'm coming . "
and every ranger gets that same promise from every other ranger .
think about it . it 's extraordinarily powerful .
it 's probably more powerful than marriage vows .
and they 've lived up to it , which gives it special power .
and so the organizational relationship that bonds them is just amazing .
and i learned personal relationships were more important than ever .
we were in a difficult operation in afghanistan in 2007 , and an old friend of mine , that i had spent many years at various points of my career with -- godfather to one of their kids -- he sent me a note , just in an envelope , that had a quote from sherman to grant that said , " i knew if i ever got in a tight spot , that you would come , if alive . "
and having that kind of relationship , for me , turned out to be critical at many points in my career .
and i learned that you have to give that in this environment , because it 's tough .
that was my journey .
i hope it 's not over .
i came to believe that a leader is n't good because they 're right ; they 're good because they 're willing to learn and to trust .
this is n't easy stuff .
it 's not like that electronic abs machine where , 15 minutes a month , you get washboard abs .
and it is n't always fair .
you can get knocked down , and it hurts and it leaves scars .
but if you 're a leader , the people you 've counted on will help you up .
and if you 're a leader , the people who count on you need you on your feet .
thank you .
arunachalam muruganantham : how i started a sanitary napkin revolution !
 when he realized his wife had to choose between buying family meals and buying her monthly " supplies , " arunachalam muruganantham vowed to help her solve the problem of the sanitary pad . his research got very very personal -- and led him to a powerful business model . 
so i tried to do a small good thing for my wife .
it makes me to stand here , the fame , the money i got out of it .
so what i did , i 'd gone back to my early marriage days .
what you did in the early marriage days , you tried to impress your wife . i did the same .
on that occasion , i found my wife carrying something like this .
i saw . " what is that ? " i asked .
my wife replied , " none of your business . "
then , being her husband , i ran behind her and saw she had a nasty rag cloth .
i do n't even use that cloth to clean my two - wheeler .
then i understood this -- adapting that unhygienic method to manage her period days .
then i immediately asked her , why are you [ using ] that unhygienic method ?
she replied , i also know about [ sanitary pads ] , but myself and my sisters , if they start using that , we have to cut our family milk budget .
then i was shocked . what is the connection between using a sanitary pad and a milk budget ?
and it 's called affordability .
i tried to impress my new wife by offering her a packet of sanitary pads .
i went to a local shop , i tried to buy her a sanitary pad packet .
that fellow looks left and right , and spreads a newspaper , rolls it into the newspaper , gives it to me like a banned item , something like that .
i do n't know why . i did not ask for a condom .
then i took that pad . i want to see that . what is inside it ?
the very first time , at the age of 29 , that day i am touching the sanitary pad , first ever .
i must know : how many of the guys here have touched a sanitary pad ?
they are not going to touch that , because it 's not your matter .
then i thought to myself , white substance , made of cotton -- oh my god , that guy is just using a penny value of raw material -- inside they are selling for pounds , dollars .
why not make a local sanitary pad for my new wife ?
that 's how all this started , but after making a sanitary pad , where can i check it ?
it 's not like i can just check it in the lab .
i need a woman volunteer . where can i get one in india ?
even in bangalore you won n't get [ one ] , in india .
so only problem : the only available victim is my wife .
then i made a sanitary pad and handed it to shanti -- my wife 's name is shanti .
" close your eyes . whatever i give , it will be not a diamond pendant not a diamond ring , even a chocolate , i will give you a surprise with a lot of tinsel paper rolled up with it .
close your eyes . "
because i tried to make it intimate .
because it 's an arranged marriage , not a love marriage .
so one day she said , openly , i 'm not going to support this research .
then other victims , they got into my sisters .
but even sisters , wives , they 're not ready to support in the research .
that 's why i am always jealous with the saints in india .
they are having a lot of women volunteers around them .
why i am not getting [ any ] ?
you know , without them even calling , they 'll get a lot of women volunteers .
then i used , tried to use the medical college girls .
they also refused . finally , i decide , use sanitary pad myself .
now i am having a title like the first man to set foot on the moon .
armstrong . then tenzing [ and ] hillary , in everest , like that muruganantham is the first man wore a sanitary pad across the globe .
i wore a sanitary pad . i filled animal blood in a football bottle , i tied it up here , there is a tube going into my panties , while i 'm walking , while i 'm cycling , i made a press , doses of blood will go there .
that makes me bow down to any woman in front of me to give full respect . that five days i 'll never forget -- the messy days , the lousy days , that wetness .
my god , it 's unbelievable .
but here the problem is , one company is making napkin out of cotton . it is working well .
but i am also trying to make sanitary pad with the good cotton . it 's not working .
that makes me to want to refuse to continue this research and research and research .
you need first funds .
not only financial crises , but because of the sanitary pad research , i come through all sorts of problems , including a divorce notice from my wife .
why is this ? i used medical college girls .
she suspects i am using as a trump card to run behind medical college girls .
finally , i came to know it is a special cellulose derived from a pinewood , but even after that , you need a multimillion - dollar plant like this to process that material . again , a stop - up .
then i spend another four years to create my own machine tools , a simple machine tool like this .
in this machine , any rural woman can apply the same raw materials that they are processing in the multinational plant , anyone can make a world-class napkin at your dining hall .
that is my invention .
so after that , what i did , usually if anyone got a patent or an invention , immediately you want to make , convert into this .
i never did this . i dropped it just like this , because you do this , if anyone runs after money , their life will not [ have ] any beauty . it is boredom .
a lot of people making a lot of money , billion , billions of dollars accumulating .
why are they coming for , finally , for philanthropy ?
why the need for accumulating money , then doing philanthropy ?
what if one decided to start philanthropy from the day one ?
that 's why i am giving this machine only in rural india , for rural women , because in india , [ you 'll be ] surprised , only two percent of women are using sanitary pads . the rest , they 're using a rag cloth , a leaf , husk , [ saw ] dust , everything except sanitary pads .
it is the same in the 21st century . that 's why i am going to decide to give this machine only for poor women across india .
so far , 630 installations happened in 23 states in six other countries .
now i 'm on my seventh year sustaining against multinational , transnational giants -- makes all mba students a question mark .
a school dropout from coimbatore , how he is able to sustaining ?
that makes me a visiting professor and guest lecturer in all iims .
play video one .
arunachalam muruganantham : the thing i saw in my wife 's hand , " why are you using that nasty cloth ? "
she replied immediately , " i know about napkins , but if i start using napkins , then we have to cut our family milk budget . "
why not make myself a low - cost napkin ?
so i decided i 'm going to sell this new machine only for women self help groups .
that is my idea .
am : and previously , you need a multimillion investment for machine and all . now , any rural woman can .
they are performing puja .
: you just think , competing giants , even from harvard , oxford , is difficult .
i make a rural woman to compete with multinationals .
i 'm sustaining on seventh year .
already 600 installations . what is my mission ?
i 'm going to make india [ into ] a 100 - percent - sanitary - napkin - using country in my lifetime .
in this way i 'm going to provide not less than a million rural employment that i 'm going to create .
that 's why i 'm not running after this bloody money .
i 'm doing something serious .
if you chase a girl , the girl won n't like you .
do your job simply , the girl will chase you .
like that , i never chased mahalakshmi .
mahalakshmi is chasing me , i am keeping in the back pocket .
not in front pocket . i 'm a back pocket man .
that 's all . a school dropout saw your problem in the society of not using sanitary pad .
i am becoming a solution provider . i 'm very happy .
i do n't want to make this as a corporate entity .
i want to make this as a local sanitary pad movement across the globe . that 's why i put all the details on public domain like an open software .
now 110 countries are accessing it . okay ?
so i classify the people into three : uneducated , little educated , surplus educated .
little educated , done this . surplus educated , what are you going to do for the society ?
thank you very much . bye !
stephen hawking : questioning the universe 
 in keeping with the theme of ted2008 , professor stephen hawking asks some big questions about our universe -- how did the universe begin ? how did life begin ? are we alone ? -- and discusses how we might go about answering them .
there is nothing bigger or older than the universe .
the questions i would like to talk about are : one , where did we come from ?
how did the universe come into being ?
are we alone in the universe ?
is there alien life out there ?
what is the future of the human race ?
up until the 1920s , everyone thought the universe was essentially static and unchanging in time .
then it was discovered that the universe was expanding .
distant galaxies were moving away from us .
this meant they must have been closer together in the past .
if we extrapolate back , we find we must have all been on top of each other about 15 billion years ago .
this was the big bang , the beginning of the universe .
but was there anything before the big bang ?
if not , what created the universe ?
why did the universe emerge from the big bang the way it did ?
we used to think that the theory of the universe could be divided into two parts .
first , there were the laws like maxwell 's equations and general relativity that determined the evolution of the universe , given its state over all of space at one time .
and second , there was no question of the initial state of the universe .
we have made good progress on the first part , and now have the knowledge of the laws of evolution in all but the most extreme conditions .
but until recently , we have had little idea about the initial conditions for the universe .
however , this division into laws of evolution and initial conditions depends on time and space being separate and distinct .
under extreme conditions , general relativity and quantum theory allow time to behave like another dimension of space .
this removes the distinction between time and space , and means the laws of evolution can also determine the initial state .
the universe can spontaneously create itself out of nothing .
moreover , we can calculate a probability that the universe was created in different states .
these predictions are in excellent agreement with observations by the wmap satellite of the cosmic microwave background , which is an imprint of the very early universe .
we think we have solved the mystery of creation .
maybe we should patent the universe and charge everyone royalties for their existence .
i now turn to the second big question : are we alone , or is there other life in the universe ?
we believe that life arose spontaneously on the earth , so it must be possible for life to appear on other suitable planets , of which there seem to be a large number in the galaxy .
but we do n't know how life first appeared .
we have two pieces of observational evidence on the probability of life appearing .
the first is that we have fossils of algae from 3.5 billion years ago .
the earth was formed 4.6 billion years ago and was probably too hot for about the first half billion years .
so life appeared on earth within half a billion years of it being possible , which is short compared to the 10 - billion - year lifetime of a planet of earth type .
this suggests that a probability of life appearing is reasonably high .
if it was very low , one would have expected it to take most of the ten billion years available .
on the other hand , we do n't seem to have been visited by aliens .
i am discounting the reports of ufos .
why would they appear only to cranks and weirdoes ?
if there is a government conspiracy to suppress the reports and keep for itself the scientific knowledge the aliens bring , it seems to have been a singularly ineffective policy so far .
furthermore , despite an extensive search by the seti project , we have n't heard any alien television quiz shows .
this probably indicates that there are no alien civilizations at our stage of development within a radius of a few hundred light years .
issuing an insurance policy against abduction by aliens seems a pretty safe bet .
this brings me to the last of the big questions : the future of the human race .
if we are the only intelligent beings in the galaxy , we should make sure we survive and continue .
but we are entering an increasingly dangerous period of our history .
our population and our use of the finite resources of planet earth are growing exponentially , along with our technical ability to change the environment for good or ill .
but our genetic code still carries the selfish and aggressive instincts that were of survival advantage in the past .
it will be difficult enough to avoid disaster in the next hundred years , let alone the next thousand or million .
our only chance of long - term survival is not to remain lurking on planet earth , but to spread out into space .
the answers to these big questions show that we have made remarkable progress in the last hundred years .
but if we want to continue beyond the next hundred years , our future is in space .
that is why i am in favor of manned -- or should i say , personed -- space flight .
all of my life i have sought to understand the universe and find answers to these questions .
i have been very lucky that my disability has not been a serious handicap .
indeed , it has probably given me more time than most people to pursue the quest for knowledge .
the ultimate goal is a complete theory of the universe , and we are making good progress .
thank you for listening .
professor , if you had to guess either way , do you now believe that it is more likely than not that we are alone in the milky way , as a civilization of our level of intelligence or higher ?
this answer took seven minutes , and really gave me an insight into the incredible act of generosity this whole talk was for ted .
stephen hawking : i think it quite likely that we are the only civilization within several hundred light years ; otherwise we would have heard radio waves .
the alternative is that civilizations do n't last very long , but destroy themselves .
professor hawking , thank you for that answer .
we will take it as a salutary warning , i think , for the rest of our conference this week .
professor , we really thank you for the extraordinary effort you made to share your questions with us today .
thank you very much indeed .
amanda bennett : we need a heroic narrative for death 
 amanda bennett and her husband were passionate and full of life all throughout their lives together -- and up until the final days , too . bennett gives a sweet yet powerful talk on why , for the loved ones of the dying , having hope for a happy ending should n't warrant a diagnosis of " denial . " she calls for a more heroic narrative for death -- to match the ones we have in life .
so i 'd like you to come back with me just for a few minutes to a dark night in china , the night i met my husband .
it was a city so long ago that it was still called peking .
so i went to a party .
i sat down next to a stout , middle - aged man with owl glasses and a bow tie , and he turned out to be a fulbright scholar , there in china specifically to study sino - soviet relations .
what a gift it was to the eager , young foreign correspondent that i was then .
i 'd pump him for information , i 'm mentally scribbling notes for the stories i plan to write .
i talk to him for hours .
only months later , i discover who he really was .
he was the china representative for the american soybean association .
" i do n't understand . soybeans ?
you told me you were a fulbright scholar . "
" well , how long would you have talked to me if i told you we 're in soybeans ? "
i said , " you jerk . "
only jerk was n't the word i used .
i said , " you could 've gotten me fired . "
and he said , " let 's get married . "
" travel the world and have lots of kids . "
so we did .
and what an alive man terence bryan foley turned out to be .
he was a chinese scholar who later , in his 60s , got a ph.d . in chinese history .
he spoke six languages , he played 15 musical instruments , he was a licensed pilot , he had once been a san francisco cable car operator , he was an expert in swine nutrition , dairy cattle , dixieland jazz , film noir , and we did travel the country , and the world , and we did have a lot of kids .
we followed my job , and it seemed like there was nothing that we could n't do .
so when we found the cancer , it does n't seem strange to us at all that without saying a word to each other , we believed that , if we were smart enough and strong enough and brave enough , and we worked hard enough , we could keep him from dying ever .
and for years , it seemed like we were succeeding .
the surgeon emerged from the surgery .
what 'd he say ? he said what surgeons always say : " we got it all . "
then there was a setback when the pathologists looked at the kidney cancer closely .
it turned out to be a rare , exceedingly aggressive type , with a diagnosis that was almost universally fatal in several weeks at most .
and yet , he did not die .
mysteriously , he lived on .
he coached little league for our son .
he built a playhouse for our daughter .
and meanwhile , i 'm burying myself in the internet looking for specialists .
i 'm looking for a cure .
so a year goes by before the cancer , as cancers do , reappears , and with it comes another death sentence , this time nine months .
so we try another treatment , aggressive , nasty .
it makes him so sick , he has to quit it , yet still he lives on .
then another year goes by .
two years go by .
more specialists .
we take the kids to italy .
we take the kids to australia .
and then more years pass , and the cancer begins to grow .
this time , there 's new treatments on the horizon .
they 're exotic . they 're experimental .
they 're going to attack the cancer in new ways .
so he enters a clinical trial , and it works .
the cancer begins to shrink , and for the third time , we 've dodged death .
so now i ask you , how do i feel when the time finally comes and there 's another dark night , sometime between midnight and 2 a.m. ?
this time it 's on the intensive care ward when a twentysomething resident that i 've never met before tells me that terence is dying , perhaps tonight .
so what do i say when he says , " what do you want me to do ? "
there 's another drug out there .
it 's newer . it 's more powerful .
he started it just two weeks ago .
perhaps there 's still hope ahead .
so what do i say ?
i say , " keep him alive if you can . "
and terence died six days later .
so we fought , we struggled , we triumphed .
it was an exhilarating fight , and i 'd repeat the fight today without a moment 's hesitation .
we fought together , we lived together .
it turned what could have been seven of the grimmest years of our life into seven of the most glorious .
it was also an expensive fight .
it was the kind of fight and the kind of choices that everyone here agrees pump up the cost of end - of - life care , and of healthcare for all of us .
and for me , for us , we pushed the fight right over the edge , and i never got the chance to say to him what i say to him now almost every day : " hey , buddy , it was a hell of a ride . "
we never got the chance to say goodbye .
we never thought it was the end .
we always had hope .
so what do we make of all of this ?
being a journalist , after terence died , i wrote a book , " the cost of hope . "
i wrote it because i wanted to know why i did what i did , why he did what he did , why everyone around us did what they did .
and what did i discover ?
well , one of the things i discovered is that experts think that one answer to what i did at the end was a piece of paper , the advance directive , to help families get past the seemingly irrational choices .
yet i had that piece of paper .
we both did .
and they were readily available .
i had them right at hand .
both of them said the same thing : do nothing if there is no further hope .
i knew terence 's wishes as clearly and as surely as i knew my own .
yet we never got to no further hope .
even with that clear - cut paper in our hands , we just kept redefining hope .
i believed i could keep him from dying , and i 'd be embarrassed to say that if i had n't seen so many people and have talked to so many people who have felt exactly the same way .
right up until days before his death , i felt strongly and powerfully , and , you might say , irrationally , that i could keep him from dying ever .
now , what do the experts call this ?
they say it 's denial .
it 's a strong word , is n't it ?
yet i will tell you that denial is n't even close to a strong enough word to describe what those of us facing the death of our loved ones go through .
and i hear the medical professionals say , " well , we 'd like to do such - and - such , but the family 's in denial .
the family won n't listen to reason .
they 're in denial .
how can they insist on this treatment at the end ?
it 's so clear , yet they 're in denial . "
now , i think this maybe is n't a very useful way of thinking .
it 's not just families either .
the medical professionals too , you out there , you 're in denial too .
you want to help . you want to fix .
you want to do .
you 've succeeded in everything you 've done , and having a patient die , well , that must feel like failure .
i saw it firsthand .
just days before terence died , his oncologist said , " tell terence that better days are just ahead . "
days before he died .
yet ira byock , the director of palliative medicine at dartmouth said , " you know , the best doctor in the world has never succeeded in making anyone immortal . "
so what the experts call " denial , " i call " hope , " and i 'd like to borrow a phrase from my friends in software design .
you just redefine denial and hope , and it becomes a feature of being human .
it 's not a bug .
it 's a feature .
so we need to think more constructively about this very common , very profound and very powerful human emotion .
it 's part of the human condition , and yet our system and our thinking is n't built to accommodate it .
so terence told me a story on that long - ago night , and i believed it .
maybe i wanted to believe it .
and during terence 's illness , i , we , we wanted to believe the story of our fight together too .
giving up the fight -- for that 's how it felt , it felt like giving up -- meant giving up not only his life but also our story , our story of us as fighters , the story of us as invincible , and for the doctors , the story of themselves as healers .
so what do we need ?
maybe we do n't need a new piece of paper .
maybe we need a new story , not a story about giving up the fight or of hopelessness , but rather a story of victory and triumph , of a valiant battle and , eventually , a graceful retreat , a story that acknowledges that not even the greatest general defeats every foe , that no doctor has ever succeeded in making anyone immortal , and that no wife , no matter how hard she tried , has ever stopped even the bravest , wittiest and most maddeningly lovable husband from dying when it was his time to go .
people did mention hospice , but i would n't listen .
hospice was for people who were dying , and terence was n't dying .
as a result , he spent just four days in hospice , which i 'm sure , as you all know , is a pretty typical outcome , and we never said goodbye because we were unprepared for the end .
we have a noble path to curing the disease , patients and doctors alike , but there does n't seem to be a noble path to dying .
dying is seen as failing , and we had a heroic narrative for fighting together , but we did n't have a heroic narrative for letting go .
so maybe we need a narrative for acknowledging the end , and for saying goodbye , and maybe our new story will be about a hero 's fight , and a hero 's goodbye .
terence loved poetry , and the greek poet constantine cavafy is one of my favorite poets .
so i 'll give you a couple lines from him .
this is a poem about mark antony .
you know mark antony , the conquering hero , cleopatra 's guy ?
actually , one of cleopatra 's guys .
and he 's been a pretty good general .
he 's won all the fights , he 's eluded all the people that are out to get him , and yet this time , finally , he 's come to the city of alexandria and realized he 's lost .
the people are leaving . they 're playing instruments .
they 're singing .
and suddenly he knows he 's been defeated .
and he suddenly knows he 's been deserted by the gods , and it 's time to let go .
and the poet tells him what to do .
he tells him how to say a noble goodbye , a goodbye that 's fit for a hero .
" as if long - prepared , as if courageous , as it becomes you who were worthy of such a city , approach the window with a firm step , and with emotion , but not with the entreaties or the complaints of a coward , as a last enjoyment , listen to the sounds , the exquisite instruments of the musical troops , and bid her farewell , the alexandria you are losing . "
that 's a goodbye for a man who was larger than life , a goodbye for a man for whom anything , well , almost anything , was possible , a goodbye for a man who kept hope alive .
and is n't that what we 're missing ?
how can we learn that people 's decisions about their loved ones are often based strongly , powerfully , many times irrationally , on the slimmest of hopes ?
the overwhelming presence of hope is n't denial .
it 's part of our dna as humans , and maybe it 's time our healthcare system -- doctors , patients , insurance companies , us , started accounting for the power of that hope .
hope is n't a bug .
it 's a feature .
thank you .
eleni gabre - madhin : a commodities exchange for ethiopia 
 economist eleni gabre - madhin outlines her ambitious vision to found the first commodities market in ethiopia . her plan would create wealth , minimize risk for farmers and turn the world 's largest recipient of food aid into a regional food basket .
you know , there 's a small country nestled in the himalayan mountains , far from these beautiful mountains , where the people of the kingdom of bhutan have decided to do something different , which is to measure their gross national happiness rather than their gross national product .
and why not ?
after all , happiness is not just a privilege for the lucky few , but a fundamental human right for all .
and what is happiness ?
happiness is the freedom of choice .
the freedom to chose where to live , what to do , what to buy , what to sell , from whom , to whom , when and how .
where does choice come from ?
and who gets to express it , and how do we express it ?
well , one way to express choice is through the market .
well - functioning markets provide choices , and ultimately , the ability to express one 's pursuit for happiness .
the great indian economist , amartya sen , was awarded the nobel prize for demonstrating that famine is not so much about the availability of food supply , but rather the ability to acquire or entitle oneself to that food through the market .
in 1984 , in what can only be considered one of the greatest crimes of humanity , nearly one million people died of starvation in my country of birth , ethiopia .
not because there was not enough food -- because there was actually a surplus of food in the fertile regions of the south parts of the country -- but because in the north , people could not access or entitle themselves to that food .
that was a turning point for my life .
most africans today , by far , are farmers .
and most of africa 's farmers are , by and large , small farmers in terms of land that they operate , and very , very small farmers in terms of the capital they have at their disposal .
african agriculture today is among , or is , the most under - capitalized in the world .
only seven percent of arable land in africa is irrigated , compared to 40 percent in asia .
african farmers only use some 22 kilograms of fertilizer per hectare , compared to 144 in asia .
road density is six times greater in asia than it is in rural africa .
there are eight times more tractors in latin america , and three times more tractors in asia , than in africa .
the small farmer in africa today lives a life without much choice , and therefore without much freedom .
his livelihood is predetermined by the conditions of grinding poverty .
he comes to the market when prices are lowest , with the meager fruits of his hard labor , just after the harvest , because he has no choice .
she comes back to the market some months later , when prices are highest , in what we call the lean season -- when food is scarce -- because she has to feed her family and has no choice .
the real question is , how can markets be developed in rural africa to harness the power of innovation and entrepreneurship that we know exists ?
another notable economist , theodore schultz , in 1974 won the nobel prize for demonstrating that farmers are efficient , but poor .
meaning , in fact , that farmers are rational and profit - minded just like everybody else .
well , we do n't need , now , any more nobel prizes to know that farmers want a fair shake at the market and want to make money , just like everyone else .
and one thing is clear , which is at least now we know that africa is open for business .
and that business is agriculture .
over two decades ago , the world insisted to africa that markets must be liberalized , that economies must be structurally adjusted .
this meant that governments were to remove themselves from the business of buying and selling -- which they did rather inefficiently -- and let the private market do its magic .
well , what happened over the last 25 years ?
did africa feed itself ?
did our farmers turn into highly productive commercial actors ?
i think we 're all in this room , probably , because we know that , in fact , africa is the only region in the world where hunger and malnutrition are projected to go up over the next 10 years , where the food import bill is now double what it was 20 years ago , where food production per capita has stagnated , and where fertilizer use has declined rather than increased .
so why did n't agriculture markets perform to expectations ?
the market reforms prompted by the west -- and i 've spent some 15 years traveling around the continent doing research on agricultural markets , and have interviewed traders in 10 to 15 countries in this continent , hundreds of traders -- trying to understand what went wrong with our market reform .
and it seems to me that the reforms might have thrown the baby out with the bath water .
like its agriculture , africa 's markets are highly under - capitalized and inefficient .
we know from our work around the continent that transaction costs of reaching the market , and the risks of transacting in rural , agriculture markets , are extremely high .
in fact , only one third of agricultural output produced in africa even reaches the market .
africa 's markets are weak not only because of weak infrastructure in terms of roads and telecommunications , but also because of the virtual absence of necessary market institutions , such as market information , grades and standards , and reliable ways to connect buyers and sellers .
because of this , commodity buyers and sellers typically transact in small circles , in narrow networks of people they know and trust .
and because of that , as grain changes hands -- and i 've measured that it changes hands four , five times in its trajectory from the farmer to the consumer -- every time it changes hands -- and i 've seen this all over rural africa -- it also changes sacks .
and i thought that was incredibly peculiar .
and really realized that that was because -- as traders would tell me over and over -- that 's the only way people know what they 're getting in terms of the quantity and the product quality .
and that actually has huge implications for the ability of markets to quickly respond to price signals , and situations where there are deficits , for example .
it also has very high cost implications .
i have measured that 26 percent of the marketing margin is simply due to the fact that , because of the absence of grades and standards and market information , sacks have to be constantly changed .
and this leads to very high handling costs .
for their part , small farmers , who produce the bulk of our agricultural output in africa , come to the market with virtually no information at all -- blind -- trusting that they 're going to have some sort of demand for their produce , and completely at the mercy of the merchants in the only market , the nearest local market they know -- where they 're unable to negotiate better prices or reduce their risk .
speaking of risk , we have seen that price volatility of food crops in africa is the highest in the world .
in africa , small farmers bear the brunt of this risk .
in fact , in my view , there is no region of the world and no period in history that farmers have been expected to bear the kind of market risk that africa 's farmers have to bear .
and in my view , there is simply no place in the world that has grown its agriculture on the kind of risk that our farmers in africa today face .
in ethiopia , for example , the variation in maize prices from year to year is as much as 50 percent annually .
this kind of market risk is mind - boggling , and has direct implications for not only the incentives of farmers to invest in higher productivity technology , such as modern seeds and fertilizers , but also direct implications for food security .
to give you an example , between 2001 and 2002 , ethiopian maize farmers produced two years of bumper harvest .
that in turn , because of the weak marketing system , led to an 80 percent collapse in maize prices in the country .
this made it unprofitable for some farmers to even harvest the grain from the fields .
and we calculated that some 300,000 tons of grain was left in the fields to rot in early 2002 .
not six months later , in july 2002 , ethiopia announced a major food crisis , to the same proportions as 1984 : 14 million people at risk of starvation .
what also happened that year is in the areas where there were good rains , and where farmers had previously produced surplus grain , farmers had decided to withdraw from the fertilizer market , not use fertilizer and actually had dropped their use of fertilizer by 27 percent .
this is a tragic example of arrested development , or a budding green revolution stopped in its tracks .
and this is not just specific to ethiopia , but happens over and over , all over africa .
well , i 'm not here today to lament about the situation , or wring my hands .
i am here to tell you that change is in the air .
africa today is not the africa waiting for aid solutions , or cookie - cutter foreign expert policy prescriptions .
africa has learned , or is learning somewhat slowly , that markets do n't happen by themselves .
in the 1980s , it was very fashionable to talk about getting prices right .
there was a very influential book about that , which was mainly about getting governments out of the market .
we now recognize that getting markets right is about not just price incentives , but also investing in the right infrastructure and the appropriate and necessary institutions to create the conditions to unleash the power of innovation in the market .
when conditions are right , we know and see that that innovation is ready to explode in rural africa , just like anywhere else .
nearly three years ago , i decided to leave my comfortable job as a world bank senior economist in washington and come back to my country of birth , ethiopia , after nearly 30 years abroad .
i did so for a simple reason .
after having spent more than a decade understanding , studying , and trying to convince policymakers and donors about what was wrong with africa 's agricultural markets , i decided it was time to do something about it .
i currently lead , in ethiopia , an exciting new initiative to establish the first ethiopia commodity exchange , or ecx .
now , the commodity exchange itself , that concept , is not new to the world .
in fact , in 1848 , 82 grain merchants and farmers got together in a small town at the crossroads of the illinois river and lake michigan to establish a way to trade better amongst themselves .
that was , of course , the birth of the chicago board of trade , which is the most famous commodity exchange in the world .
the chicago board of trade was established then for precisely the same reasons that our farmers today would benefit from a commodity exchange .
in the american midwest , farmers used to load grain onto barges and send it upriver to the chicago market .
but once it arrived , if no buyer was to be found , or if prices suddenly dropped , farmers would incur tremendous losses .
and in fact , would even dump the grain in lake michigan , rather than spend more money transporting it back to their farms .
well , the need to avoid these huge risks and tremendous losses led to the birth of the futures market , and the underlying system of grading grain and receipting -- issuing warehouse receipts on the basis of which trade could be done .
from there , the greatest innovation of all came about in this market , which is that buyers and sellers could transact grain without actually having to physically or visually inspect the grain .
that meant that grain could be traded across tremendous distances , and even across time -- as far forward as 18 months into the future .
this innovation is at the heart of the transformation of american agriculture , and the rise of chicago to a global market , agricultural market , superpower from where it was , a small regional town .
now , over the last century , we tend to think of commodity exchanges as the purview of western industrialized countries , and that the reference prices for cotton , coffee , cocoa -- products produced mainly in the south -- are actually a reference price , or a price discovered in these organized commodity exchanges in the northern countries .
but that is actually changing .
and we 're seeing a shift -- powered mainly because of information technology -- a shift in market dominance towards the emerging markets .
and over the last decade , you see that the share of western exchanges -- and this is the u.s. share of exchanges in the world -- has gone down by nearly half in just the last decade .
similarly , there 's been explosive growth in india , for example , where rural farmers are using exchanges -- growing here over the last three years by 270 percent a year .
this is powered by low - cost vsat technology , aggressively trying to reach farmers to bring them into the market .
china 's dalian commodity exchange , three years ago , 2004 , overtook the chicago board of trade to become the second largest commodity exchange in the world .
now , in ethiopia , we 're in the process of designing the first organized ethiopia commodity exchange .
we 're not trying to cut and paste the chicago model or the india model , but creating a system uniquely tailored to ethiopia 's needs and realities , ethiopia 's small farmers .
so , the ecx is an ethiopian exchange for ethiopia .
we 're creating a system that serves all market actors , that creates integrity , trust , efficiency , transparency and enables small farmers to manage the risks that i have described .
in the design of our commodity exchange in ethiopia , we 've done something rather unique , which is to take the approach of an integrated perspective , or what we call the ecx edge .
the ecx edge pretty much creates the entire ecosystem in which the market will develop itself .
and this is because one of the things we 've learned over the last decade of studying market development in africa is that the piecemeal approach does not work .
you 've got one donor trying to develop market information , another trying to work on or sponsor grades and standards , another ict , and yet another on warehousing , or warehouse receipts .
in our approach in ethiopia , we 've decided to put together the entire ecosystem , or environment , in which trade takes place .
that means that the exchange will operate a trading system , which will initially start as an open outcry , because we do n't think the country 's ready for full electronic trading .
but at the same time , we 'll do something which i think no exchange in the world has ever done , which is itself to operate something like an internet cafe in the rural areas .
so that farmers and small traders can actually come to a terminal center -- what we call the remote access terminal centers -- and actually , without having to buy a computer or figure out how to dial up or any of those things , simply see the trading that 's happening on the addis ababa trading floor .
at the same time , what 's very fundamental to this market is that -- and again , an innovation that we 've designed for our exchange -- is that the exchange will operate warehouses around the country , in which grade certification and warehouse receipting will be done .
and in turn , we 'll operate an in - house clearing system , to assure that payment is done appropriately , in the right amount and at the right time , so that basically , we create trust and integrity in the system .
obviously , we work with exchange actors , and as we 're developing the exchange market itself , we 're also developing the regulatory infrastructure and legal framework , the overarching legal framework for making this market work .
so , in fact , our proclamation is going to parliament next month .
what 's really important is that the ecx will operate a market information system to disseminate prices in real time to farmers around the country , using vsat technology to bring an electronic price dissemination directly to farmers .
what this does is transforms , fundamentally , the farmers ' relationship to the market .
whereas before the farmer used to think local -- meaning that he or she would go to the nearest local market , eight to 10 kilometers away on average , and sell whatever they happened to have , without any idea of what the price premium or anything else was -- now farmers come with knowledge of what prices are at the national market .
and they start to think national , and even global .
they start to make not only commercial marketing decisions , but also planting decisions , on the basis of information coming from the futures price market .
and they come to the market knowing what grades their products will achieve in terms of a price premium .
so all of this will transform farmers .
it will also transform the way traders do business .
it will stop them from doing simple , back - to - back , limited arbitrage to really thinking strategically about how to move grain across long distances from [ surplus regions ] to [ deficit areas ] .
can ethiopia do this ?
it seems very ambitious .
but it will create new opportunities .
we believe that this initiative requires great political will , and we 'll have to align the financial sector , as well as the ict sector , and really even the underlying legal framework .
we believe that the winds of change are here , and that we can do it .
ecx is the market for ethiopia 's new millennium , which starts in about eight months .
the last parliament of our century opened with our president announcing to the country that this was the most important economic initiative for the country today .
we believe that the stakes are high , but that the returns will be even greater .
ecx , moreover , can become a trading platform for a pan-african market in agricultural commodities .
ethiopia 's domestic market is about one billion dollars of value .
and we feel that over the next five years , if ethiopia can capture even 40 percent , just 40 percent , of the domestic market , and add just 25 percent value to that market , the value of the market doubles .
ethiopia 's agricultural market is 30 percent higher than south africa 's grain production , and , in fact , ethiopia is the second largest maize producer in africa .
so the potential is there .
the will is there .
the commitment is there .
so we feel that we have a winning value proposition to transform farmers ' choices , to grow our agriculture , and to change africa .
so , we are in the business of finding our happiness .
thank you very much .
shawn achor : the happy secret to better work 
 we believe that we should work to be happy , but could that be backwards ? in this fast - moving and entertaining talk , psychologist shawn achor argues that actually happiness inspires productivity . & lt ; em & gt ;& lt ;/ em & gt ;
when i was seven years old and my sister was just five years old , we were playing on top of a bunk bed .
i was two years older than my sister at the time -- i mean , i 'm two years older than her now -- but at the time it meant she had to do everything that i wanted to do , and i wanted to play war .
so we were up on top of our bunk beds .
and on one side of the bunk bed , i had put out all of my g.i. joe soldiers and weaponry .
and on the other side were all my sister 's my little ponies ready for a cavalry charge .
there are differing accounts of what actually happened that afternoon , but since my sister is not here with us today , let me tell you the true story -- -- which is my sister 's a little bit on the clumsy side .
somehow , without any help or push from her older brother at all , suddenly amy disappeared off of the top of the bunk bed and landed with this crash on the floor .
now i nervously peered over the side of the bed to see what had befallen my fallen sister and saw that she had landed painfully on her hands and knees on all fours on the ground .
i was nervous because my parents had charged me with making sure that my sister and i played as safely and as quietly as possible .
and seeing as how i had accidentally broken amy 's arm just one week before ...
... heroically pushing her out of the way of an oncoming imaginary sniper bullet , for which i have yet to be thanked , i was trying as hard as i could -- she did n't even see it coming -- i was trying as hard as i could to be on my best behavior .
and i saw my sister 's face , this wail of pain and suffering and surprise threatening to erupt from her mouth and threatening to wake my parents from the long winter 's nap for which they had settled .
so i did the only thing my little frantic seven year - old brain could think to do to avert this tragedy .
and if you have children , you 've seen this hundreds of times before .
i said , " amy , amy , wait . do n't cry . do n't cry .
did you see how you landed ?
no human lands on all fours like that .
amy , i think this means you 're a unicorn . "
now that was cheating , because there was nothing in the world my sister would want more than not to be amy the hurt five year - old little sister , but amy the special unicorn .
of course , this was an option that was open to her brain at no point in the past .
and you could see how my poor , manipulated sister faced conflict , as her little brain attempted to devote resources to feeling the pain and suffering and surprise she just experienced , or contemplating her new - found identity as a unicorn .
and the latter won out .
instead of crying , instead of ceasing our play , instead of waking my parents , with all the negative consequences that would have ensued for me , instead a smile spread across her face and she scrambled right back up onto the bunk bed with all the grace of a baby unicorn ...
... with one broken leg .
what we stumbled across at this tender age of just five and seven -- we had no idea at the time -- was something that was going be at the vanguard of a scientific revolution occurring two decades later in the way that we look at the human brain .
what we had stumbled across is something called positive psychology , which is the reason that i 'm here today and the reason that i wake up every morning .
when i first started talking about this research outside of academia , out with companies and schools , the very first thing they said to never do is to start your talk with a graph .
the very first thing i want to do is start my talk with a graph .
this graph looks boring , but this graph is the reason i get excited and wake up every morning .
and this graph does n't even mean anything ; it 's fake data .
what we found is -- if i got this data back studying you here in the room , i would be thrilled , because there 's very clearly a trend that 's going on there , and that means that i can get published , which is all that really matters .
the fact that there 's one weird red dot that 's up above the curve , there 's one weirdo in the room -- i know who you are , i saw you earlier -- that 's no problem .
that 's no problem , as most of you know , because i can just delete that dot .
i can delete that dot because that 's clearly a measurement error .
and we know that 's a measurement error because it 's messing up my data .
so one of the very first things we teach people in economics and statistics and business and psychology courses is how , in a statistically valid way , do we eliminate the weirdos .
how do we eliminate the outliers so we can find the line of best fit ?
which is fantastic if i 'm trying to find out how many advil the average person should be taking -- two .
but if i 'm interested in potential , if i 'm interested in your potential , or for happiness or productivity or energy or creativity , what we 're doing is we 're creating the cult of the average with science .
if i asked a question like , " how fast can a child learn how to read in a classroom ? "
scientists change the answer to " how fast does the average child learn how to read in that classroom ? "
and then we tailor the class right towards the average .
now if you fall below the average on this curve , then psychologists get thrilled , because that means you 're either depressed or you have a disorder , or hopefully both .
we 're hoping for both because our business model is , if you come into a therapy session with one problem , we want to make sure you leave knowing you have 10 , so you keep coming back over and over again .
we 'll go back into your childhood if necessary , but eventually what we want to do is make you normal again .
but normal is merely average .
and what i posit and what positive psychology posits is that if we study what is merely average , we will remain merely average .
then instead of deleting those positive outliers , what i intentionally do is come into a population like this one and say , why ?
why is it that some of you are so high above the curve in terms of your intellectual ability , athletic ability , musical ability , creativity , energy levels , your resiliency in the face of challenge , your sense of humor ?
whatever it is , instead of deleting you , what i want to do is study you .
because maybe we can glean information -- not just how to move people up to the average , but how we can move the entire average up in our companies and schools worldwide .
the reason this graph is important to me is , when i turn on the news , it seems like the majority of the information is not positive , in fact it 's negative .
most of it 's about murder , corruption , diseases , natural disasters .
and very quickly , my brain starts to think that 's the accurate ratio of negative to positive in the world .
what that 's doing is creating something called the medical school syndrome -- which , if you know people who 've been to medical school , during the first year of medical training , as you read through a list of all the symptoms and diseases that could happen , suddenly you realize you have all of them .
i have a brother in - law named bobo -- which is a whole other story .
bobo married amy the unicorn .
bobo called me on the phone from yale medical school , and bobo said , " shawn , i have leprosy . "
which , even at yale , is extraordinarily rare .
but i had no idea how to console poor bobo because he had just gotten over an entire week of menopause .
see what we 're finding is it 's not necessarily the reality that shapes us , but the lens through which your brain views the world that shapes your reality .
and if we can change the lens , not only can we change your happiness , we can change every single educational and business outcome at the same time .
when i applied to harvard , i applied on a dare .
i did n't expect to get in , and my family had no money for college .
when i got a military scholarship two weeks later , they allowed me to go .
suddenly , something that was n't even a possibility became a reality .
when i went there , i assumed everyone else would see it as a privilege as well , that they 'd be excited to be there .
even if you 're in a classroom full of people smarter than you , you 'd be happy just to be in that classroom , which is what i felt .
but what i found there is , while some people experience that , when i graduated after my four years and then spent the next eight years living in the dorms with the students -- harvard asked me to ; i was n't that guy .
i was an officer of harvard to counsel students through the difficult four years .
and what i found in my research and my teaching is that these students , no matter how happy they were with their original success of getting into the school , two weeks later their brains were focused , not on the privilege of being there , nor on their philosophy or their physics .
their brain was focused on the competition , the workload , the hassles , the stresses , the complaints .
when i first went in there , i walked into the freshmen dining hall , which is where my friends from waco , texas , which is where i grew up -- i know some of you have heard of it .
when they 'd come to visit me , they 'd look around , they 'd say , " this freshman dining hall looks like something out of hogwart 's from the movie " harry potter , " which it does .
this is hogwart 's from the movie " harry potter " and that 's harvard .
and when they see this , they say , " shawn , why do you waste your time studying happiness at harvard ?
seriously , what does a harvard student possibly have to be unhappy about ? "
embedded within that question is the key to understanding the science of happiness .
because what that question assumes is that our external world is predictive of our happiness levels , when in reality , if i know everything about your external world , i can only predict 10 percent of your long - term happiness .
90 percent of your long - term happiness is predicted not by the external world , but by the way your brain processes the world .
and if we change it , if we change our formula for happiness and success , what we can do is change the way that we can then affect reality .
what we found is that only 25 percent of job successes are predicted by i.q .
75 percent of job successes are predicted by your optimism levels , your social support and your ability to see stress as a challenge instead of as a threat .
i talked to a boarding school up in new england , probably the most prestigious boarding school , and they said , " we already know that .
so every year , instead of just teaching our students , we also have a wellness week .
and we 're so excited . monday night we have the world 's leading expert coming in to speak about adolescent depression .
tuesday night it 's school violence and bullying .
wednesday night is eating disorders .
thursday night is elicit drug use .
and friday night we 're trying to decide between risky sex or happiness . "
i said , " that 's most people 's friday nights . "
which i 'm glad you liked , but they did not like that at all .
silence on the phone .
and into the silence , i said , " i 'd be happy to speak at your school , but just so you know , that 's not a wellness week , that 's a sickness week .
what you 've done is you 've outlined all the negative things that can happen , but not talked about the positive . "
the absence of disease is not health .
here 's how we get to health : we need to reverse the formula for happiness and success .
in the last three years , i 've traveled to 45 different countries , working with schools and companies in the midst of an economic downturn .
and what i found is that most companies and schools follow a formula for success , which is this : if i work harder , i 'll be more successful .
and if i 'm more successful , then i 'll be happier .
that undergirds most of our parenting styles , our managing styles , the way that we motivate our behavior .
and the problem is it 's scientifically broken and backwards for two reasons .
first , every time your brain has a success , you just changed the goalpost of what success looked like .
you got good grades , now you have to get better grades , you got into a good school and after you get into a better school , you got a good job , now you have to get a better job , you hit your sales target , we 're going to change your sales target .
and if happiness is on the opposite side of success , your brain never gets there .
what we 've done is we 've pushed happiness over the cognitive horizon as a society .
and that 's because we think we have to be successful , then we 'll be happier .
but the real problem is our brains work in the opposite order .
if you can raise somebody 's level of positivity in the present , then their brain experiences what we now call a happiness advantage , which is your brain at positive performs significantly better than it does at negative , neutral or stressed .
your intelligence rises , your creativity rises , your energy levels rise .
in fact , what we 've found is that every single business outcome improves .
your brain at positive is 31 percent more productive than your brain at negative , neutral or stressed .
you 're 37 percent better at sales .
doctors are 19 percent faster , more accurate at coming up with the correct diagnosis when positive instead of negative , neutral or stressed .
which means we can reverse the formula .
if we can find a way of becoming positive in the present , then our brains work even more successfully as we 're able to work harder , faster and more intelligently .
what we need to be able to do is to reverse this formula so we can start to see what our brains are actually capable of .
because dopamine , which floods into your system when you 're positive , has two functions .
not only does it make you happier , it turns on all of the learning centers in your brain allowing you to adapt to the world in a different way .
we 've found that there are ways that you can train your brain to be able to become more positive .
in just a two - minute span of time done for 21 days in a row , we can actually rewire your brain , allowing your brain to actually work more optimistically and more successfully .
we 've done these things in research now in every single company that i 've worked with , getting them to write down three new things that they 're grateful for for 21 days in a row , three new things each day .
and at the end of that , their brain starts to retain a pattern of scanning the world , not for the negative , but for the positive first .
journaling about one positive experience you 've had over the past 24 hours allows your brain to relive it .
exercise teaches your brain that your behavior matters .
we find that meditation allows your brain to get over the cultural adhd that we 've been creating by trying to do multiple tasks at once and allows our brains to focus on the task at hand .
and finally , random acts of kindness are conscious acts of kindness .
we get people , when they open up their inbox , to write one positive email praising or thanking somebody in their social support network .
and by doing these activities and by training your brain just like we train our bodies , what we 've found is we can reverse the formula for happiness and success , and in doing so , not only create ripples of positivity , but create a real revolution .
thank you very much .
dan ariely : what makes us feel good about our work ?
 what motivates us to work ? contrary to conventional wisdom , it is n't just money . but it 's not exactly joy either . it seems that most of us thrive by making constant progress and feeling a sense of purpose . behavioral economist dan ariely presents two eye - opening experiments that reveal our unexpected and nuanced attitudes toward meaning in our work . & lt ; em & gt ;& lt ;/ em & gt ;
i want to talk a little bit today about labor and work .
when we think about how people work , the naive intuition we have is that people are like rats in a maze -- that all people care about is money , and the moment we give people money , we can direct them to work one way , we can direct them to work another way .
this is why we give bonuses to bankers and pay in all kinds of ways .
and we really have this incredibly simplistic view of why people work and what the labor market looks like .
at the same time , if you think about it , there 's all kinds of strange behaviors in the world around us .
think about something like mountaineering and mountain climbing .
if you read books of people who climb mountains , difficult mountains , do you think that those books are full of moments of joy and happiness ?
no , they are full of misery .
in fact , it 's all about frostbite and difficulty to walk and difficulty of breathing -- cold , challenging circumstances .
and if people were just trying to be happy , the moment they would get to the top , they would say , " this was a terrible mistake .
i 'll never do it again . "
" instead , let me sit on a beach somewhere drinking mojitos . "
but instead , people go down , and after they recover , they go up again .
and if you think about mountain climbing as an example , it suggests all kinds of things .
it suggests that we care about reaching the end , a peak .
it suggests that we care about the fight , about the challenge .
it suggests that there 's all kinds of other things that motivate us to work or behave in all kinds of ways .
and for me personally , i started thinking about this after a student came to visit me .
this was a student that was one of my students a few years earlier .
and he came one day back to campus .
and he told me the following story : he said that for more than two weeks , he was working on a powerpoint presentation .
he was working in a big bank .
this was in preparation for a merger and acquisition .
and he was working very hard on this presentation -- graphs , tables , information .
he stayed late at night every day .
and the day before it was due , he sent his powerpoint presentation to his boss , and his boss wrote him back and said , " nice presentation , but the merger is canceled . "
and the guy was deeply depressed .
now at the moment when he was working , he was actually quite happy .
every night he was enjoying his work , he was staying late , he was perfecting this powerpoint presentation .
but knowing that nobody would ever watch that made him quite depressed .
so i started thinking about how do we experiment with this idea of the fruits of our labor .
and to start with , we created a little experiment in which we gave people legos , and we asked them to build with legos .
and for some people , we gave them legos and we said , " hey , would you like to build this bionicle for three dollars ?
we 'll pay you three dollars for it . "
and people said yes , and they built with these legos .
and when they finished , we took it , we put it under the table , and we said , " would you like to build another one , this time for $2.70 ? "
if they said yes , we gave them another one .
and when they finished , we asked them , " do you want to build another one ? " for $2.40 , $2.10 , and so on , until at some point people said , " no more . it 's not worth it for me . "
this was what we called the meaningful condition .
people built one bionicle after another .
after they finished every one of them , we put them under the table .
and we told them that at the end of the experiment , we will take all these bionicles , we will disassemble them , we will put them back in the boxes , and we will use it for the next participant .
there was another condition .
this other condition was inspired by david , my student .
and this other condition we called the sisyphic condition .
and if you remember the story about sisyphus , sisyphus was punished by the gods to push the same rock up a hill , and when he almost got to the end , the rock would roll over , and he would have to start again .
and you can think about this as the essence of doing futile work .
you can imagine that if he pushed the rock on different hills , at least he would have some sense of progress .
also , if you look at prison movies , sometimes the way that the guards torture the prisoners is to get them to dig a hole and when the prisoner is finished , they ask him to fill the hole back up and then dig again .
there 's something about this cyclical version of doing something over and over and over that seems to be particularly demotivating .
so in the second condition of this experiment , that 's exactly what we did .
we asked people , " would you like to build one bionicle for three dollars ? "
and if they said yes , they built it .
then we asked them , " do you want to build another one for $2.70 ? "
and if they said yes , we gave them a new one , and as they were building it , we took apart the one that they just finished .
and when they finished that , we said , " would you like to build another one , this time for 30 cents less ? "
and if they said yes , we gave them the one that they built and we broke .
so this was an endless cycle of them building and us destroying in front of their eyes .
now what happens when you compare these two conditions ?
the first thing that happened was that people built many more bionicles -- they built 11 versus seven -- in the meaningful condition versus the sisyphus condition .
and by the way , we should point out that this was not a big meaning .
people were not curing cancer or building bridges .
people were building bionicles for a few cents .
and not only that , everybody knew that the bionicles would be destroyed quite soon .
so there was not a real opportunity for big meaning .
but even the small meaning made a difference .
now we had another version of this experiment .
in this other version of the experiment , we did n't put people in this situation , we just described to them the situation , much as i am describing to you now , and we asked them to predict what the result would be .
what happened ?
people predicted the right direction but not the right magnitude .
people who were just given the description of the experiment said that in the meaningful condition people would probably build one more bionicle .
so people understand that meaning is important , they just do n't understand the magnitude of the importance , the extent to which it 's important .
there was one other piece of data we looked at .
if you think about it , there are some people who love legos and some people who do n't .
and you would speculate that the people who love legos will build more legos , even for less money , because after all , they get more internal joy from it .
and the people who love legos less will build less legos because the enjoyment that they derive from it is lower .
and that 's actually what we found in the meaningful condition .
there was a very nice correlation between love of lego and the amount of legos people built .
what happened in the sisyphic condition ?
in that condition the correlation was zero .
there was no relationship between the love of lego and how much people built , which suggests to me that with this manipulation of breaking things in front of people 's eyes , we basically crushed any joy that they could get out of this activity .
we basically eliminated it .
soon after i finished running this experiment , i went to talk to a big software company in seattle .
i can n't tell you who they were , but they were a big company in seattle .
and this was a group within this software company that was put in a different building .
and they asked them to innovate and create the next big product for this company .
and the week before i showed up , the ceo of this big software company went to that group , 200 engineers , and canceled the project .
and i stood there in front of 200 of the most depressed people i 've ever talked to .
and i described to them some of these lego experiments , and they said they felt like they had just been through that experiment .
and i asked them , i said , " how many of you now show up to work later than you used to ? "
and everybody raised their hand .
i said , " how many of you now go home earlier than you used to ? "
and everybody raised their hand .
i asked them , " how many of you now add not - so - kosher things to your expense reports ? "
and they did n't really raise their hands , but they took me out to dinner and showed me what they could do with expense reports .
and then i asked them , i said , " what could the ceo have done to make you not as depressed ? "
and they came up with all kinds of ideas .
they said the ceo could have asked them to present to the whole company about their journey over the last two years and what they decided to do .
he could have asked them to think about which aspect of their technology could fit with other parts of the organization .
he could have asked them to build some prototypes , some next - generation prototypes , and seen how they would work .
but the thing is that any one of those would require some effort and motivation .
and i think the ceo basically did not understand the importance of meaning .
if the ceo , just like our participants , thought the essence of meaning is unimportant , then he [ would n't ] care .
and he would tell them , " at the moment i directed you in this way , and now that i am directing you in this way , everything will be okay . "
but if you understood how important meaning is , then you would figure out that it 's actually important to spend some time , energy and effort in getting people to care more about what they 're doing .
the next experiment was slightly different .
we took a sheet of paper with random letters , and we asked people to find pairs of letters that were identical next to each other .
that was the task .
and people did the first sheet .
and then we asked them if they wanted to do the next sheet for a little bit less money and the next sheet for a little bit less money , and so on and so forth .
and we had three conditions .
in the first condition , people wrote their name on the sheet , found all the pairs of letters , gave it to the experimenter .
the experimenter would look at it , scan it from top to bottom , say " uh huh " and put it on the pile next to them .
in the second condition , people did not write their name on it .
the experimenter looked at it , took the sheet of paper , did not look at it , did not scan it , and simply put it on the pile of pages .
so you take a piece , you just put it on the side .
and in the third condition , the experimenter got the sheet of paper and directly put it into a shredder .
what happened in those three conditions ?
in this plot i 'm showing you at what pay rate people stopped .
so low numbers mean that people worked harder . they worked for much longer .
in the acknowledged condition , people worked all the way down to 15 cents .
at 15 cents per page , they basically stopped these efforts .
in the shredder condition , it was twice as much -- 30 cents per sheet .
and this is basically the result we had before .
you shred people 's efforts , output , you get them not to be as happy with what they 're doing .
but i should point out , by the way , that in the shredder condition , people could have cheated .
they could have done not so good work , because they realized that people were just shredding it .
so maybe the first sheet you would do good work , but then you see nobody is really testing it , so you would do more and more and more .
so in fact , in the shredder condition , people could have submitted more work and gotten more money and put less effort into it .
but what about the ignored condition ?
would the ignored condition be more like the acknowledged or more like the shredder , or somewhere in the middle ?
it turns out it was almost like the shredder .
now there 's good news and bad news here .
the bad news is that ignoring the performance of people is almost as bad as shredding their effort in front of their eyes .
ignoring gets you a whole way out there .
the good news is that by simply looking at something that somebody has done , scanning it and saying " uh huh , " that seems to be quite sufficient to dramatically improve people 's motivations .
so the good news is that adding motivation does n't seem to be so difficult .
the bad news is that eliminating motivations seems to be incredibly easy , and if we do n't think about it carefully , we might overdo it .
so this is all in terms of negative motivation or eliminating negative motivation .
the next part i want to show you is something about the positive motivation .
so there is a store in the u.s. called ikea .
and ikea is a store with kind of okay furniture that takes a long time to assemble .
and i do n't know about you , but every time i assemble one of those , it takes me much longer , it 's much more effortful , it 's much more confusing .
i put things in the wrong way .
i can n't say enjoy those pieces .
i can n't say i enjoy the process .
but when i finish it , i seem to like those ikea pieces of furniture more than i like other ones .
and there 's an old story about cake mixes .
so when they started cake mixes in the ' 40s , they would take this powder and they would put it in a box , and they would ask housewives to basically pour it in , stir some water in it , mix it , put it in the oven , and -- voila ! -- you had cake .
but it turns out they were very unpopular .
people did not want them .
and they thought about all kinds of reasons for that .
maybe the taste was not good .
no , the taste was great .
what they figured out was that there was not enough effort involved .
it was so easy that nobody could serve cake to their guests and say , " here is my cake . "
no , no , no , it was somebody else 's cake .
it was as if you bought it in the store .
it did n't really feel like your own .
so what did they do ?
they took the eggs and the milk out of the powder .
now you had to break the eggs and add them .
you had to measure the milk and add it , mixing it .
now it was your cake . now everything was fine .
now i think a little bit like the ikea effect , by getting people to work harder , they actually got them to love what they 're doing to a higher degree .
so how do we look at this question experimentally ?
we asked people to build some origami .
we gave them instructions on how to create origami , and we gave them a sheet of paper .
and these were all novices , and they built something that was really quite ugly -- nothing like a frog or a crane .
but then we told them , we said , " look , this origami really belongs to us .
you worked for us , but i 'll tell you what , we 'll sell it to you .
how much do you want to pay for it ? "
and we measured how much they were willing to pay for it .
and we had two types of people .
we had the people who built it , and we had the people who did not build it and just looked at it as external observers .
and what we found was that the builders thought that these were beautiful pieces of origami , and they were willing to pay for them five times more than the people who just evaluated them externally .
now you could say , if you were a builder , do you think that , " oh , i love this origami , but i know that nobody else would love it ? "
or do you think , " i love this origami , and everybody else will love it as well ? "
which one of those two is correct ?
turns out the builders not only loved the origami more , they thought that everybody would see the world in their view .
they thought everybody else would love it more as well .
in the next version we tried to do the ikea effect .
we tried to make it more difficult .
so for some people we gave the same task .
for some people we made it harder by hiding the instructions .
at the top of the sheet , we had little diagrams of how do you fold origami .
for some people we just eliminated that .
so now this was tougher . what happened ?
well in an objective way , the origami now was uglier , it was more difficult .
now when we looked at the easy origami , we saw the same thing : builders loved it more , evaluators loved it less .
when you looked at the hard instructions , the effect was larger .
why ? because now the builders loved it even more .
they put all this extra effort into it .
and evaluators ? they loved it even less .
because in reality it was even uglier than the first version .
of course , this tells you something about how we evaluate things .
now think about kids .
imagine i asked you , " how much would you sell your kids for ? "
your memories and associations and so on .
most people would say for a lot , a lot of money -- on good days .
but imagine this was slightly different .
imagine if you did not have your kids , and one day you went to the park and you met some kids , and they were just like your kids .
and you played with them for a few hours .
and when you were about to leave , the parents said , " hey , by the way , just before you leave , if you 're interested , they 're for sale . "
how much would you pay for them now ?
most people say not that much .
and this is because our kids are so valuable , not just because of who they are , but because of us , because they are so connected to us and because of the time and connection .
and by the way , if you think that ikea instructions are not good , think about the instructions that come with kids .
those are really tough .
by the way , these are my kids , which , of course , are wonderful and so on .
which comes to tell you one more thing , which is , much like our builders , when they look at the creature of their creation , we do n't see that other people do n't see things our way .
let me say one last comment .
if you think about adam smith versus karl marx , adam smith had the very important notion of efficiency .
he gave an example of a pin factory .
he said pins have 12 different steps , and if one person does all 12 steps , production is very low .
but if you get one person to do step one and one person to do step two and step three and so on , production can increase tremendously .
and indeed , this is a great example and the reason for the industrial revolution and efficiency .
karl marx , on the other hand , said that the alienation of labor is incredibly important in how people think about the connection to what they are doing .
and if you make all 12 steps , you care about the pin .
but if you make one step every time , maybe you do n't care as much .
and i think that in the industrial revolution , adam smith was more correct than karl marx , but the reality is that we 've switched and now we 're in the knowledge economy .
and you can ask yourself , what happens in a knowledge economy ?
is efficiency still more important than meaning ?
i think the answer is no .
i think that as we move to situations in which people have to decide on their own about how much effort , attention , caring , how connected they feel to it , are they thinking about labor on the way to work and in the shower and so on , all of a sudden marx has more things to say to us .
so when we think about labor , we usually think about motivation and payment as the same thing , but the reality is that we should probably add all kinds of things to it -- meaning , creation , challenges , ownership , identity , pride , etc.
and the good news is that if we added all of those components and thought about them , how do we create our own meaning , pride , motivation , and how do we do it in our workplace and for the employees , i think we could get people to both be more productive and happier .
thank you very much .
carl honor : in praise of slowness 
 journalist carl honore believes the western world 's emphasis on speed erodes health , productivity and quality of life . but there 's a backlash brewing , as everyday people start putting the brakes on their all - too - modern lives .
what i 'd like to start off with is an observation , which is that if i 've learned anything over the last year , it 's that the supreme irony of publishing a book about slowness is that you have to go around promoting it really fast .
i seem to spend most of my time these days zipping from city to city , studio to studio , interview to interview , serving up the book in really tiny bite - size chunks .
because everyone these days wants to know how to slow down , but they want to know how to slow down really quickly . so ...
so i did a spot on cnn the other day where i actually spent more time in makeup than i did talking on air .
and i think that -- that 's not really surprising though , is it ?
because that 's kind of the world that we live in now , a world stuck in fast - forward .
a world obsessed with speed , with doing everything faster , with cramming more and more into less and less time .
every moment of the day feels like a race against the clock .
to borrow a phrase from carrie fisher , which is in my bio there ; i 'll just toss it out again -- " these days even instant gratification takes too long . "
and if you think about how we to try to make things better , what do we do ?
no , we speed them up , do n't we ? so we used to dial ; now we speed dial .
we used to read ; now we speed read . we used to walk ; now we speed walk .
and of course , we used to date and now we speed date .
and even things that are by their very nature slow -- we try and speed them up too .
so i was in new york recently , and i walked past a gym that had an advertisement in the window for a new course , a new evening course .
and it was for , you guessed it , speed yoga .
so this -- the perfect solution for time - starved professionals who want to , you know , salute the sun , but only want to give over about 20 minutes to it .
i mean , these are sort of the extreme examples , and they 're amusing and good to laugh at .
but there 's a very serious point , and i think that in the headlong dash of daily life , we often lose sight of the damage that this roadrunner form of living does to us .
we 're so marinated in the culture of speed that we almost fail to notice the toll it takes on every aspect of our lives -- on our health , our diet , our work , our relationships , the environment and our community .
and sometimes it takes a wake - up call , does n't it , to alert us to the fact that we 're hurrying through our lives , instead of actually living them ; that we 're living the fast life , instead of the good life .
and i think for many people , that wake - up call takes the form of an illness .
you know , a burnout , or eventually the body says , " i can n't take it anymore , " and throws in the towel .
or maybe a relationship goes up in smoke because we have n't had the time , or the patience , or the tranquility , to be with the other person , to listen to them .
and my wake - up call came when i started reading bedtime stories to my son , and i found that at the end of day , i would go into his room and i just could n't slow down -- you know , i 'd be speed reading " the cat in the hat . "
i 'd be -- you know , i 'd be skipping lines here , paragraphs there , sometimes a whole page , and of course , my little boy knew the book inside out , so we would quarrel .
and what should have been the most relaxing , the most intimate , the most tender moment of the day , when a dad sits down to read to his son , became instead this kind of gladiatorial battle of wills , a clash between my speed and his slowness .
and this went on for some time , until i caught myself scanning a newspaper article with timesaving tips for fast people .
and one of them made reference to a series of books called " the one - minute bedtime story . "
and i wince saying those words now , but my first reaction at the time was very different .
my first reflex was to say , " hallelujah -- what a great idea !
this is exactly what i 'm looking for to speed up bedtime even more . "
but thankfully , a light bulb went on over my head , and my next reaction was very different , and i took a step back , and i thought , " whoa -- you know , has it really come to this ?
am i really in such a hurry that i 'm prepared to fob off my son with a sound byte at the end of the day ? "
and i put away the newspaper -- and i was getting on a plane -- and i sat there , and i did something i had n't done for a long time -- which is i did nothing .
i just thought , and i thought long and hard .
and by the time i got off that plane , i 'd decided i wanted to do something about it .
i wanted to investigate this whole roadrunner culture , and what it was doing to me and to everyone else .
and i had two questions in my head .
the first was , how did we get so fast ?
and the second is , is it possible , or even desirable , to slow down ?
now , if you think about how our world got so accelerated , the usual suspects rear their heads .
you think of , you know , urbanization , consumerism , the workplace , technology .
but i think if you cut through those forces , you get to what might be the deeper driver , the nub of the question , which is how we think about time itself .
in other cultures , time is cyclical .
it 's seen as moving in great , unhurried circles .
it 's always renewing and refreshing itself .
whereas in the west , time is linear .
it 's a finite resource ; it 's always draining away .
you either use it , or lose it .
" time is money , " as benjamin franklin said .
and i think what that does to us psychologically is it creates an equation .
time is scarce , so what do we do ?
well -- well , we speed up , do n't we ?
we try and do more and more with less and less time .
we turn every moment of every day into a race to the finish line -- a finish line , incidentally , that we never reach , but a finish line nonetheless .
and i guess that the question is , is it possible to break free from that mindset ?
and thankfully , the answer is yes , because what i discovered , when i began looking around , that there is a global backlash against this culture that tells us that faster is always better , and that busier is best .
right across the world , people are doing the unthinkable : they 're slowing down , and finding that , although conventional wisdom tells you that if you slow down , you 're road kill , the opposite turns out to be true : that by slowing down at the right moments , people find that they do everything better .
they eat better ; they make love better ; they exercise better ; they work better ; they live better .
and , in this kind of cauldron of moments and places and acts of deceleration , lie what a lot of people now refer to as the " international slow movement . "
now if you 'll permit me a small act of hypocrisy , i 'll just give you a very quick overview of what 's going on inside the slow movement . if you think of food , many of you will have heard of the slow food movement .
started in italy , but has spread across the world , and now has 100,000 members in 50 countries .
and it 's driven by a very simple and sensible message , which is that we get more pleasure and more health from our food when we cultivate , cook and consume it at a reasonable pace .
i think also the explosion of the organic farming movement , and the renaissance of farmers ' markets , are other illustrations of the fact that people are desperate to get away from eating and cooking and cultivating their food on an industrial timetable .
they want to get back to slower rhythms .
and out of the slow food movement has grown something called the slow cities movement , which has started in italy , but has spread right across europe and beyond .
and in this , towns begin to rethink how they organize the urban landscape , so that people are encouraged to slow down and smell the roses and connect with one another .
so they might curb traffic , or put in a park bench , or some green space .
and in some ways , these changes add up to more than the sum of their parts , because i think when a slow city becomes officially a slow city , it 's kind of like a philosophical declaration .
it 's saying to the rest of world , and to the people in that town , that we believe that in the 21st century , slowness has a role to play .
in medicine , i think a lot of people are deeply disillusioned with the kind of quick - fix mentality you find in conventional medicine .
and millions of them around the world are turning to complementary and alternative forms of medicine , which tend to tap into sort of slower , gentler , more holistic forms of healing .
now , obviously the jury is out on many of these complementary therapies , and i personally doubt that the coffee enema will ever , you know , gain mainstream approval .
but other treatments such as acupuncture and massage , and even just relaxation , clearly have some kind of benefit .
and blue - chip medical colleges everywhere are starting to study these things to find out how they work , and what we might learn from them .
sex . there 's an awful lot of fast sex around , is n't there ?
i was coming to -- well -- no pun intended there .
i was making my way , let 's say , slowly to oxford , and i went through a news agent , and i saw a magazine , a men 's magazine , and it said on the front , " how to bring your partner to orgasm in 30 seconds . "
so , you know , even sex is on a stopwatch these days .
now , you know , i like a quickie as much as the next person , but i think that there 's an awful lot to be gained from slow sex -- from slowing down in the bedroom .
you know , you tap into that -- those deeper , sort of , psychological , emotional , spiritual currents , and you get a better orgasm with the buildup .
you can get more bang for your buck , let 's say .
i mean , the pointer sisters said it most eloquently , did n't they , when they sang the praises of " a lover with a slow hand . "
now , we all laughed at sting a few years ago when he went tantric , but you fast - forward a few years , and now you find couples of all ages flocking to workshops , or maybe just on their own in their own bedrooms , finding ways to put on the brakes and have better sex .
and of course , in italy where -- i mean , italians always seem to know where to find their pleasure -- they 've launched an official slow sex movement .
the workplace .
right across much of the world -- north america being a notable exception -- working hours have been coming down .
and europe is an example of that , and people finding that their quality of life improves as they 're working less , and also that their hourly productivity goes up .
now , clearly there are problems with the 35 - hour workweek in france -- too much , too soon , too rigid .
but other countries in europe , notably the nordic countries , are showing that it 's possible to have a kick - ass economy without being a workaholic .
and norway , sweden , denmark and finland now rank among the top six most competitive nations on earth , and they work the kind of hours that would make the average american weep with envy .
and if you go beyond sort of the country level , down at the micro - company level , more and more companies now are realizing that they need to allow their staff either to work fewer hours or just to unplug -- to take a lunch break , or to go sit in a quiet room , to switch off their blackberrys and laptops -- you at the back -- mobile phones , during the work day or on the weekend , so that they have time to recharge and for the brain to slide into that kind of creative mode of thought .
it 's not just , though , these days , adults who overwork , though , is it ? it 's children , too .
i 'm 37 , and my childhood ended in the mid - ' 80s , and i look at kids now , and i 'm just amazed by the way they race around with more homework , more tutoring , more extracurriculars than we would ever have conceived of a generation ago .
and some of the most heartrending emails that i get on my website are actually from adolescents hovering on the edge of burnout , pleading with me to write to their parents , to help them slow down , to help them get off this full - throttle treadmill .
but thankfully , there is a backlash there in parenting as well , and you 're finding that , you know , towns in the united states are now banding together and banning extracurriculars on a particular day of the month , so that people can , you know , decompress and have some family time , and slow down .
homework is another thing . there are homework bans springing up all over the developed world in schools which had been piling on the homework for years , and now they 're discovering that less can be more .
so there was a case up in scotland recently where a fee - paying , high - achieving private school banned homework for everyone under the age of 13 , and the high - achieving parents freaked out and said , " what are you -- you know , our kids will fall " -- the headmaster said , " no , no , your children need to slow down at the end of the day . "
and just this last month , the exam results came in , and in math , science , marks went up 20 percent on average last year .
and i think what 's very revealing is that the elite universities , who are often cited as the reason that people drive their kids and hothouse them so much , are starting to notice the caliber of students coming to them is falling . these kids have wonderful marks ; they have cvs jammed with extracurriculars , to the point that would make your eyes water .
but they lack spark ; they lack the ability to think creatively and think outside -- they do n't know how to dream . and so what these ivy league schools , and oxford and cambridge and so on , are starting to send a message to parents and students that they need to put on the brakes a little bit .
and in harvard , for instance , they send out a letter to undergraduates -- freshmen -- telling them that they 'll get more out of life , and more out of harvard , if they put on the brakes , if they do less , but give time to things , the time that things need , to enjoy them , to savor them .
and even if they sometimes do nothing at all .
and that letter is called -- very revealing , i think -- " slow down ! " -- with an exclamation mark on the end .
so wherever you look , the message , it seems to me , is the same : that less is very often more , that slower is very often better . but that said , of course , it 's not that easy to slow down , is it ?
i mean , you heard that i got a speeding ticket while i was researching my book on the benefits of slowness , and that 's true , but that 's not all of it .
i was actually en route to a dinner held by slow food at the time .
and if that 's not shaming enough , i got that ticket in italy .
and if any of you have ever driven on an italian highway , you 'll have a pretty good idea of how fast i was going .
but why is it so hard to slow down ?
i think there are various reasons .
one is that speed is fun , you know , speed is sexy .
it 's all that adrenaline rush . it 's hard to give it up .
i think there 's a kind of metaphysical dimension -- that speed becomes a way of walling ourselves off from the bigger , deeper questions .
we fill our head with distraction , with busyness , so that we do n't have to ask , am i well ? am i happy ? are my children growing up right ?
are politicians making good decisions on my behalf ?
another reason -- although i think , perhaps , the most powerful reason -- why we find it hard to slow down is the cultural taboo that we 've erected against slowing down .
" slow " is a dirty word in our culture .
it 's a byword for " lazy , " " slacker , " for being somebody who gives up .
you know , " he 's a bit slow . " it 's actually synonymous with being stupid .
i guess what the slow movement -- the purpose of the slow movement , or its main goal , really , is to tackle that taboo , and to say that yes , sometimes slow is not the answer , that there is such a thing as " bad slow . "
you know , i got stuck on the m25 , which is a ring road around london , recently , and spent three - and - a - half hours there . and i can tell you , that 's really bad slow .
but the new idea , the sort of revolutionary idea , of the slow movement , is that there is such a thing as " good slow , " too .
and good slow is , you know , taking the time to eat a meal with your family , with the tv switched off .
or taking the time to look at a problem from all angles in the office to make the best decision at work .
or even simply just taking the time to slow down and savor your life .
now , one of the things that i found most uplifting about all of this stuff that 's happened around the book since it came out , is the reaction to it .
and i knew that when my book on slowness came out , it would be welcomed by the new age brigade , but it 's also been taken up , with great gusto , by the corporate world -- you know , business press , but also big companies and leadership organizations .
because people at the top of the chain , people like you , i think , are starting to realize that there 's too much speed in the system , there 's too much busyness , and it 's time to find , or get back to that lost art of shifting gears .
another encouraging sign , i think , is that it 's not just in the developed world that this idea 's been taken up . in the developing world , in countries that are on the verge of making that leap into first world status -- china , brazil , thailand , poland , and so on -- these countries have embraced the idea of the slow movement , many people in them , and there 's a debate going on in their media , on the streets .
because i think they 're looking at the west , and they 're saying , " well , we like that aspect of what you 've got , but we 're not so sure about that . "
so all of that said , is it , i guess , is it possible ?
that 's really the main question before us today . is it possible to slow down ? and i 'm happy to be able to say to you that the answer is a resounding yes .
and i present myself as exhibit a , a kind of reformed and rehabilitated speed - aholic .
i still love speed . you know , i live in london , and i work as a journalist , and i enjoy the buzz and the busyness , and the adrenaline rush that comes from both of those things .
i play squash and ice hockey , two very fast sports , and i would n't give them up for the world .
but i 've also , over the last year or so , got in touch with my inner tortoise .
and what that means is that i no longer overload myself gratuitously .
my default mode is no longer to be a rush - aholic .
i no longer hear time 's winged chariot drawing near , or at least not as much as i did before .
i can actually hear it now , because i see my time is ticking off .
and the upshot of all of that is that i actually feel a lot happier , healthier , more productive than i ever have .
i feel like i 'm living my life rather than actually just racing through it .
and perhaps , the most important measure of the success of this is that i feel that my relationships are a lot deeper , richer , stronger .
and for me , i guess , the litmus test for whether this would work , and what it would mean , was always going to be bedtime stories , because that 's sort of where the journey began . and there too the news is rosy . you know , at the end of the day , i go into my son 's room .
i do n't wear a watch . i switch off my computer , so i can n't hear the email pinging into the basket , and i just slow down to his pace and we read .
and because children have their own tempo and internal clock , they do n't do quality time , where you schedule 10 minutes for them to open up to you .
they need you to move at their rhythm .
i find that 10 minutes into a story , you know , my son will suddenly say , " you know , something happened in the playground today that really bothered me . "
and we 'll go off and have a conversation on that .
and i now find that bedtime stories used to be a box on my to - do list , something that i dreaded , because it was so slow and i had to get through it quickly .
it 's become my reward at the end of the day , something i really cherish .
and i have a kind of hollywood ending to my talk this afternoon , which goes a little bit like this : a few months ago , i was getting ready to go on another book tour , and i had my bags packed .
i was downstairs by the front door , and i was waiting for a taxi , and my son came down the stairs and he 'd made a card for me . and he was carrying it .
he 'd gone and stapled two cards , very like these , together , and put a sticker of his favorite character , tintin , on the front .
and he said to me , or he handed this to me , and i read it , and it said , " to daddy , love benjamin . "
and i thought , " aw , that 's really sweet .
is that a good luck on the book tour card ? "
and he said , " no , no , no , daddy -- this is a card for being the best story reader in the world . "
and i thought , " yeah , you know , this slowing down thing really does work . "
thank you very much .
amy lockwood : selling condoms in the congo 
 hiv is a serious problem in the dr congo , and aid agencies have flooded the country with free and cheap condoms . but few people are using them . why ? " reformed marketer " amy lockwood offers a surprising answer that upends a traditional model of philanthropy . 
i am a reformed marketer , and i now work in international development .
in october , i spent some time in the democratic republic of congo , which is the [ second ] largest country in africa .
in fact , it 's as large as western europe , but it only has 300 miles of paved roads .
the drc is a dangerous place .
in the past 10 years , five million people have died due to a war in the east .
but war is n't the only reason that life is difficult in the drc .
there are many health issues as well .
in fact , the hiv prevalence rate is 1.3 percent among adults .
this might not sound like a large number , but in a country with 76 million people , it means there are 930,000 that are infected .
and due to the poor infrastructure , only 25 percent of those are receiving the life - saving drugs that they need .
which is why , in part , donor agencies provide condoms at low or no cost .
and so while i was in the drc , i spent a lot of time talking to people about condoms , including damien .
damien runs a hotel outside of kinshasa .
it 's a hotel that 's only open until midnight , so it 's not a place that you stay .
but it is a place where sex workers and their clients come .
now damien knows all about condoms , but he does n't sell them .
he said there 's just not in demand .
it 's not surprising , because only three percent of people in the drc use condoms .
joseph and christine , who run a pharmacy where they sell a number of these condoms , said despite the fact that donor agencies provide them at low or no cost , and they have marketing campaigns that go along with them , their customers do n't buy the branded versions .
they like the generics .
and as a marketer , i found that curious .
and so i started to look at what the marketing looked like .
and it turns out that there are three main messages used by the donor agencies for these condoms : fear , financing and fidelity .
they name the condoms things like vive , " to live " or trust .
they package it with the red ribbon that reminds us of hiv , put it in boxes that remind you who paid for them , show pictures of your wife or husband and tell you to protect them or to act prudently .
now these are not the kinds of things that someone is thinking about just before they go get a condom .
what is it that you think about just before you get a condom ?
sex !
and the private companies that sell condoms in these places , they understand this .
their marketing is slightly different .
the name might not be much different , but the imagery sure is .
some brands are aspirational , and certainly the packaging is incredibly provocative .
and this made me think that perhaps the donor agencies had just missed out on a key aspect of marketing : understanding who 's the audience .
and for donor agencies , unfortunately , the audience tends to be people that are n't even in the country they 're working [ in ] .
it 's people back home , people that support their work , people like these .
but if what we 're really trying to do is stop the spread of hiv , we need to think about the customer , the people whose behavior needs to change -- the couples , the young women , the young men -- whose lives depend on it .
and so the lesson is this : it does n't really matter what you 're selling ; you just have to think about who is your customer , and what are the messages that are going to get them to change their behavior .
it might just save their lives .
thank you .
vicki arroyo : let 's prepare for our new climate 
 as vicki arroyo says , it 's time to prepare our homes and cities for our changing climate , with its increased risk of flooding , drought and uncertainty . she illustrates this inspiring talk with bold projects from cities all over the world -- local examples of thinking ahead .
this is the skyline of my hometown , new orleans .
it was a great place to grow up , but it 's one of the most vulnerable spots in the world .
half the city is already below sea level .
in 2005 , the world watched as new orleans and the gulf coast were devastated by hurricane katrina .
one thousand , eight hundred and thirty - six people died . nearly 300,000 homes were lost .
these are my mother 's , at the top -- although that 's not her car , it was carried there by floodwaters up to the roof -- and that 's my sister 's , below .
fortunately , they and other family members got out in time , but they lost their homes , and as you can see , just about everything in them .
other parts of the world have been hit by storms in even more devastating ways .
in 2008 , cyclone nargis and its aftermath killed 138,000 in myanmar .
climate change is affecting our homes , our communities , our way of life . we should be preparing at every scale and at every opportunity .
this talk is about being prepared for , and resilient to the changes that are coming and that will affect our homes and our collective home , the earth .
the changes in these times won n't affect us all equally .
there are important distributional consequences , and they 're not what you always might think .
in new orleans , the elderly and female - headed households were among the most vulnerable .
for those in vulnerable , low - lying nations , how do you put a dollar value on losing your country where you ancestors are buried ? and where will your people go ?
and how will they cope in a foreign land ?
will there be tensions over immigration , or conflicts over competition for limited resources ?
it 's already fueled conflicts in chad and darfur .
like it or not , ready or not , this is our future .
sure , some are looking for opportunities in this new world .
that 's the russians planting a flag on the ocean bottom to stake a claim for minerals under the receding arctic sea ice .
but while there might be some short - term individual winners , our collective losses will far outweigh them .
look no further than the insurance industry as they struggle to cope with mounting catastrophic losses from extreme weather events .
the military gets it . they call climate change a threat multiplier that could harm stability and security , while governments around the world are evaluating how to respond .
so what can we do ? how can we prepare and adapt ?
i 'd like to share three sets of examples , starting with adapting to violent storms and floods .
in new orleans , the i - 10 twin spans , with sections knocked out in katrina , have been rebuilt 21 feet higher to allow for greater storm surge .
and these raised and energy - efficient homes were developed by brad pitt and make it right for the hard - hit ninth ward .
the devastated church my mom attends has been not only rebuilt higher , it 's poised to become the first energy star church in the country .
they 're selling electricity back to the grid thanks to solar panels , reflective paint and more .
their march electricity bill was only 48 dollars .
now these are examples of new orleans rebuilding in this way , but better if others act proactively with these changes in mind .
for example , in galveston , here 's a resilient home that survived hurricane ike , when others on neighboring lots clearly did not .
and around the world , satellites and warning systems are saving lives in flood - prone areas such as bangladesh .
but as important as technology and infrastructure are , perhaps the human element is even more critical .
we need better planning and systems for evacuation .
we need to better understand how people make decisions in times of crisis , and why .
while it 's true that many who died in katrina did not have access to transportation , others who did refused to leave as the storm approached , often because available transportation and shelters refused to allow them to take their pets .
imagine leaving behind your own pet in an evacuation or a rescue .
fortunately in 2006 , congress passed the pet evacuation and transportation standards act  it spells " pets "  to change that .
second , preparing for heat and drought .
farmers are facing challenges of drought from asia to africa , from australia to oklahoma , while heat waves linked with climate change have killed tens of thousands of people in western europe in 2003 , and again in russia in 2010 .
in ethiopia , 70 percent , that 's 7-0 percent of the population , depends on rainfall for its livelihood .
oxfam and swiss re , together with rockefeller foundation , are helping farmers like this one build hillside terraces and find other ways to conserve water , but they 're also providing for insurance when the droughts do come .
the stability this provides is giving the farmers the confidence to invest .
it 's giving them access to affordable credit .
it 's allowing them to become more productive so that they can afford their own insurance over time , without assistance .
it 's a virtuous cycle , and one that could be replicated throughout the developing world .
after a lethal 1995 heat wave turned refrigerator trucks from the popular taste of chicago festival into makeshift morgues , chicago became a recognized leader , tamping down on the urban heat island impact through opening cooling centers , outreach to vulnerable neighborhoods , planting trees , creating cool white or vegetated green roofs .
this is city hall 's green roof , next to cook county 's [ portion of the ] roof , which is 77 degrees fahrenheit hotter at the surface .
washington , d.c. , last year , actually led the nation in new green roofs installed , and they 're funding this in part thanks to a five - cent tax on plastic bags .
they 're splitting the cost of installing these green roofs with home and building owners .
the roofs not only temper urban heat island impact but they save energy , and therefore money , the emissions that cause climate change , and they also reduce stormwater runoff .
so some solutions to heat can provide for win - win - wins .
third , adapting to rising seas .
sea level rise threatens coastal ecosystems , agriculture , even major cities . this is what one to two meters of sea level rise looks like in the mekong delta .
that 's where half of vietnam 's rice is grown .
infrastructure is going to be affected .
airports around the world are located on the coast .
it makes sense , right ? there 's open space , the planes can take off and land without worrying about creating noise or avoiding tall buildings .
here 's just one example , san francisco airport , with 16 inches or more of flooding .
imagine the staggering cost of protecting this vital infrastructure with levees .
but there might be some changes in store that you might not imagine . for example , planes require more runway for takeoff because the heated , less dense air , provides for less lift .
san francisco is also spending 40 million dollars to rethink and redesign its water and sewage treatment , as water outfall pipes like this one can be flooded with seawater , causing backups at the plant , harming the bacteria that are needed to treat the waste .
so these outfall pipes have been retrofitted to shut seawater off from entering the system .
beyond these technical solutions , our work at the georgetown climate center with communities encourages them to look at what existing legal and policy tools are available and to consider how they can accommodate change .
for example , in land use , which areas do you want to protect , through adding a seawall , for example , alter , by raising buildings , or retreat from , to allow the migration of important natural systems , such as wetlands or beaches ?
other examples to consider . in the u.k. , the thames barrier protects london from storm surge .
the asian cities climate [ change ] resilience network is restoring vital ecosystems like forest mangroves .
these are not only important ecosystems in their own right , but they also serve as a buffer to protect inland communities .
new york city is incredibly vulnerable to storms , as you can see from this clever sign , and to sea level rise , and to storm surge , as you can see from the subway flooding .
but back above ground , these raised ventilation grates for the subway system show that solutions can be both functional and attractive . in fact , in new york , san francisco and london , designers have envisioned ways to better integrate the natural and built environments with climate change in mind .
i think these are inspiring examples of what 's possible when we feel empowered to plan for a world that will be different .
but now , a word of caution .
adaptation 's too important to be left to the experts .
why ? well , there are no experts .
we 're entering uncharted territory , and yet our expertise and our systems are based on the past .
" stationarity " is the notion that we can anticipate the future based on the past , and plan accordingly , and this principle governs much of our engineering , our design of critical infrastructure , city water systems , building codes , even water rights and other legal precedents .
but we can simply no longer rely on established norms .
we 're operating outside the bounds of co2 concentrations that the planet has seen for hundreds of thousands of years .
the larger point i 'm trying to make is this .
it 's up to us to look at our homes and our communities , our vulnerabilities and our exposures to risk , and to find ways to not just survive , but to thrive , and it 's up to us to plan and to prepare and to call on our government leaders and require them to do the same , even while they address the underlying causes of climate change .
there are no quick fixes .
there are no one - size - fits - all solutions .
we 're all learning by doing .
but the operative word is doing .
thank you .
joshua prince - ramus : behind the design of seattle 's library 
 architect joshua prince - ramus takes the audience on dazzling , dizzying virtual tours of three recent projects : the central library in seattle , the museum plaza in louisville and the charles wyly theater in dallas .
i 'm going to present three projects in rapid fire .
i do n't have much time to do it .
and i want to reinforce three ideas with that rapid - fire presentation .
the first is what i like to call a hyper - rational process .
it 's a process that takes rationality almost to an absurd level , and it transcends all the baggage that normally comes with what people would call , sort of , a rational conclusion to something .
and it concludes in something that you see here , that you actually would n't expect as being the result of rationality .
the second -- the second is that this process does not have a signature .
there is no authorship . architects are obsessed with authorship .
this is something that has editing and it has teams .
in fact , we no longer see , within this process , the traditional master architect creating a sketch that his minions carry out .
and the third is that it challenges -- and this is , in the length of this , very hard to support why , connect all these things -- but it challenges the high modernist notion of flexibility .
high modernists said , we will create sort of singular spaces that are generic .
almost anything can happen within them .
i call it sort of " shotgun flexibility . "
turn your head this way ; shoot ; and you 're bound to kill something .
so , this is the promise of high modernism : within a single space , actually , any kind of activity can happen .
but as we 're seeing , operational costs are starting to dwarf capital costs in terms of design parameters .
and so , with this sort of idea , what happens is , whatever actually is in the building on opening day , or whatever seems to be the most immediate need , starts to dwarf the possibility and sort of subsume it , of anything else could ever happen .
and so we 're proposing a different kind of flexibility , something that we call " compartmentalized flexibility . "
and the idea is that you , within that continuum , identify a series of points , and you design specifically to them .
they can be pushed off - center a little bit , but in the end you actually still get as much of that original spectrum as you originally had hoped .
with high modernist flexibility , that does n't really work .
now i 'm going to talk about -- i 'm going to build up the seattle central library in this way before your eyes in about five or six diagrams , and i truly mean this is the design process that you 'll see .
with the library staff and the library board , we settled on two core positions .
this is the first one , and this is showing , over the last 900 years , the evolution of the book and other technologies .
this diagram was our sort of position piece about the book , and our position was , books are technology -- that 's something people forget -- but it 's a form of technology that will have to share its dominance with any other form of truly potent technology or media .
the second premise -- and this was something that was very difficult for us to convince the librarians of at first -- is that libraries , since the inception of carnegie library tradition in america , had a second responsibility , and that was for social roles .
ok , now , this i 'll come back to later , but something , actually , the librarians at first said , " no , this is n't our mandate .
our mandate is media , and particularly the book . "
so what you 're seeing now is actually the design of the building .
the upper diagram is what we had seen in a whole host of contemporary libraries that used high modernist flexibility .
sort of , any activity could happen anywhere .
we do n't know the future of the library ; we do n't know the future of the book ; and so we 'll use this approach .
and what we saw were buildings that were very generic .
and , worse , not only did we see buildings that were very generic -- so , not only does the reading room look like the copy room look like the magazine area -- but it meant that whatever issue was troubling the library at that moment was starting to engulf every other activity that was happening in it .
and in this case , what was getting engulfed were these social responsibilities by the expansion of the book .
and so we proposed what 's at the lower diagram .
very dumb approach : simply compartmentalize . put those things whose evolution we could predict -- and i do n't mean that we could say whatever would actually happen in the future , but we have some certainty of the spectrum of whatever would happen in the future -- put those in boxes designed specifically for it , and put the things that we can n't predict on the rooftops .
so that was the core idea .
now , we had to convince the library that social roles was equally important to media in order to get them to accept this .
what you 're seeing here is actually their program on the left .
that 's as it was given to us in all of its clarity and glory .
our first operation was to re-digest it back to them , show it to them and say , " you know what ? we have n't touched it , but only one - third of your own program is dedicated to media and books .
two - thirds of it is already dedicated -- that 's the white band below -- the thing you said is n't important -- is already dedicated to social functions . "
so , once we had presented that back to them , they agreed that this sort of core concept could work .
we got the right to go back to first principles -- that 's the third diagram . we recombined everything .
and then we started making new decisions .
what you 're seeing on the right is the design of the library , specifically in terms of square footage .
on the left of that diagram , here , you 'll see a series of five platforms -- sort of combs , collective programs .
and on the right are the more indeterminate spaces ; things like reading rooms , whose evolution in 20 , 30 , 40 years we can n't predict .
so that literally was the design of the building .
they signed it , and to their chagrin , we came back a week later , and we presented them this .
ok ? and , as you can see , it is literally the diagram on the right .
ok ? we just sized -- no , really , i mean that , literally .
the things on the -- on the left - hand side of the diagram , those are the boxes .
we sized them into five compartments .
they 're super-efficient . we had a very low budget to work with .
we pushed them around on the site to make very literal contextual relationships .
the reading room should be able to see the water .
the main entrance should have a public plaza in front of it to abide by the zoning code , and so forth .
so , you see the five platforms -- those are the boxes -- within each one a very discrete thing is happening .
the area in between is sort of an urban continuum , these things that we can n't predict their evolution to the same degree .
to give you some sense of the power of this idea , the biggest block is what we call the book spiral .
it 's literally built in a very inexpensive way -- it is a parking garage for books .
it just so happens to be in the sixth through 10th floor of the building , but that is not necessarily an expensive approach .
and it allows us to organize the entire dewey decimal system on one continuous run : no matter how it grows or contracts within the building , it will always have its clarity to end the sort of trail of tears that we 've all experienced in public libraries .
and so this was the final operation , which was to take these blocks as they were all pushed off kilter , and to hold onto them with a skin .
that skin serves double duty , again for economics .
one , it is the lateral stability for the entire building ; it is a structural element . but its dimensions were designed not only for structure , but also for holding on every piece of glass .
the glass was then -- i 'll just use the word impregnated -- but it had a layer of metal that was called " stressed metal . "
that metal acts as a micro louver , so from the exterior of the building the sun sees it as totally opaque , but from the interior it 's entirely transparent .
so , now i 'm going to take you on a tour of the building .
let 's see if i can find it . for anyone who is -- gets motion sickness , i apologize .
so this is the building .
and i think what 's important is , when we first unveiled the building , the public thought -- saw it as being totally about our whim and ego .
and it was defended , believe it or not , by the librarians . they said , " look , we do n't know what it is , but we know it 's everything that we need it to be based on the observations that we 've done about the program . "
this is going into one of the entries .
so it 's an unusual building for a public library , obviously .
so now we 're going into what we call the reading room -- sorry , living room .
this is actually a program that we invented with the library .
it was recognizing that public libraries are the last vestige of public free space .
there are plenty of shopping malls that allow you to get out of the rain in downtown seattle , but there are not so many free places that allow you to get out of the rain .
so this was an unprogrammed area where people could pretty much do anything , including eat , yell , play chess and so forth .
now we 're moving up into what we call the mixing chamber .
that was the main sort of technology area in the building .
you 'll have to tell me if i 'm going too fast for you .
now up .
this is actually the place that we put into the building so i could propose to my wife . right there .
she said yes .
i 'm running out of time , so i 'm actually going to stop .
i can show this to you later .
but let 's see if i can very quickly get into the book spiral , because i think it 's , as i said , the most -- this is the main reading room -- the most unique part of the building .
you dizzy yet ?
ok , so here , this is the book spiral .
so , it 's very indiscernible , but it 's actually a continuous stair stepping .
it allows you to , on one city block , go up one full floor , so that it 's on a continuum .
ok , now i 'm going to go back , and so i 'm going to hit a second project .
i 'm going to go very , very quickly through this .
now this is the dallas theater . it was an unusual client for us , because they came to us and they said , " we need you to do a new building . we 've been working in a temporary space for 30 years , but because of that temporary space , we 've become an infamous theater company .
theater is really focused in new york , chicago and seattle , with the exception of the dallas theater company . "
and the very fact that they worked on a provisional space meant that for beckett they could blow out a wall ; they could do " cherry orchard " and blow a hole through the floor , and so forth .
so it was a very daunting task for us to do a brand - new building that could keep the -- be a pristine building , but keep this kind of experimental nature .
and the second is , they were what we call a multi-form theater : they do different kinds of performances in repertory .
so they in the morning will do something in arena , then they 'll do something in proscenium and so forth .
and so they needed to be able to quickly transform between different theater organizations , and for operational budget reasons , this actually no longer happens in pretty much any multi-form theater in the united states , so we needed to figure out a way to overcome that .
so our thought was to literally put the theater on its head : to take those things that were previously defined as front - of - house and back - of - house and stack them -- above house and below house -- and to create sort of what we started to call a theater machine .
we invest the money in the operation of the building .
it 's almost as though the building could be placed anywhere : wherever you place it , the area underneath it is charged for theatrical performances .
and it allowed us to go back to first principles , and redefine fly tower , acoustic enclosure , light enclosure and so forth .
and at the push of a button , it allows the artistic director to move between proscenium thrust and , in fact , arena and traverse and flat floor in a very quick transfiguration .
so in fact , we can go , using operational budget , we can -- sorry , capital cost -- we can actually achieve what was no longer achievable in operational cost .
and that means that the artistic director now has a palette that he or she can choose from between a series of forms and a series of processions , because that enclosure around the theater that is normally trapped with front - of - house and back - of - house spaces has been liberated .
so an artistic director has the ability to show -- have a performance that enters in a wagnerian procession , shows the first act in thrust , the intermission in a greek procession , second act in arena , and so forth .
so i 'm going to show you what this actually means .
this is the theater up close .
any portion around the theater actually can be opened discretely .
the light enclosure can be lifted separate to the acoustic enclosure , so you can do beckett with dallas as the backdrop .
portions can be opened , so you can now actually have motorcycles drive directly into the performance , or you can even just have an open - air performance , or for intermissions .
the balconies all move to go between those configurations , but they also disappear .
the proscenium line can also disappear .
you can bring enormous objects in , so in fact their -- the dallas theater company -- their first show will be a play about charles lindbergh , and they 'll want to bring in [ a ] real aircraft .
and then it also provides them , in the off - season , the ability to actually rent out their space for entirely different things .
this is it at night -- sorry , from a distance .
open up entire portions for different kinds of events .
and at night .
again , remove the light enclosure ; keep the acoustic enclosure .
this is a monster truck show .
i 'm going to show now the last project .
this also is an unusual client .
they inverted the whole idea of development .
they came to us and they said -- unlike normal developers -- they said , " we want to start out by providing a contemporary art museum in louisville . that 's our main goal . "
and so instead of being a developer that sees an opportunity to make money , they saw an ability to be a catalyst in their downtown .
and the fact that they wanted to support the contemporary art museum actually built their pro forma , so they worked in reverse .
and that pro forma led us to a mixed - use building that was very large in order to support their aspirations of the art , but it also opened up opportunities for the art itself to collaborate , interact with commercial spaces that actually artists more and more want to work within .
and it also charged us with thinking about how to have something that was both a single building and a credible sort of sub-building .
so now i 'm going to -- this is louisville 's skyline -- and i 'm going to take you through various constraints that led to the project .
first : the physical constraints . we actually had to operate on three discrete sites , all of them well , well smaller than the size of the building .
we had to operate next to the new muhammad ali center , and respect it .
we had to operate within the 100 - year floodplain .
now , this area floods three to four times a year , and there 's a levee behind our site similar to the ones that broke in new orleans .
have to operate behind the i - 64 corridor , a street that cuts through the middle of these separate sites .
so these -- we 're starting to build a sort of nightmare of constraints in a bathtub .
underneath the bathtub are the city 's main power lines .
and there is a pedestrian corridor that they wanted to add that would link a series of cultural buildings , and a view corridor -- because this is the historic district -- that they did n't want to obstruct with the new building .
and now we 're going to add 1.1 million square feet .
and if we did the traditional thing , that 1.1 million square feet -- these are the different programs -- the traditional thing would be to identify the public elements , place them on sites , and now we 'd have a really terrible situation : a public thing in the middle of a bathtub that floods .
and then we would size all the other elements -- the different commercial elements : hotel , luxury housing , offices and so forth -- and dump it on top . and we would create something that was unviable .
in fact -- and you know this -- this is called the time warner building .
so our strategy was very simple .
just lift the entire block , flip some of the elements over , reposition them so they have appropriate views and relationships to downtown , and make circulation connections and reroute the road .
so that 's the basic concept , and now i 'm going to show you what it leads to .
ok , it seems a very formal , willful gesture , but something derived entirely out of the constraints .
and again , when we unveiled it , there was a sort of nervousness that this was about an architect making a statement , not an architect who was attempting to solve a series of problems .
now , within that center zone , as i said , we have the ability to mix a series of things .
so here you can see that these -- this -- sort of an x - ray -- the towers are totally developer - driven . they told us the dimensions , the sizes and so forth and we focused on taking all the public components -- the lobbies , the bars , everything that the different commercial elements would have -- and combined it in the center , in the sort of subway map , in the transfer zone that would also include the contemporary art museum .
so it creates a situation like this , where you have artists who can operate within an art space that also has an amazing view on the 22nd floor , but it also has proximity that the curator can either open or close .
it allows people on exercise bicycles to be seen or to see the art , and so forth .
it also means that if an artist wants to invade something like a swimming pool , they can begin to do their exhibition in a swimming pool , so they 're not forced to always work within the confines of a contemporary gallery space .
so , how to build this .
it 's very simple : it 's a chair .
so , we begin by building the cores .
as we 're building the cores , we build the contemporary art museum at grade .
that allows us to have incredible efficiency and cost efficiency .
this is not a high - budget building .
the moment the cores get to mid level , we finish the art museum ; we put all the mechanical equipment in it ; and then we jack it up into the air .
this is how they build really large aircraft hangars , for instance , the ones that they did for the a380 .
finish the cores , finish the meat and you get something that looks like this .
now i only have about 30 seconds , so i want to start an animation , and we 'll conclude with that . thank you .
chris asked me to add -- the theater is under construction , and this project will start construction in about a year , and finish in 2010 .
aubrey de grey : a roadmap to end aging 
 cambridge researcher aubrey de grey argues that aging is merely a disease -- and a curable one at that . humans age in seven basic ways , he says , all of which can be averted .
18 minutes is an absolutely brutal time limit , so i 'm going to dive straight in , right at the point where i get this thing to work .
here we go . i 'm going to talk about five different things .
i 'm going to talk about why defeating aging is desirable .
i 'm going to talk about why we have to get our shit together , and actually talk about this a bit more than we do .
i 'm going to talk about feasibility as well , of course .
i 'm going to talk about why we are so fatalistic about doing anything about aging .
and then i 'm going spend perhaps the second half of the talk talking about , you know , how we might actually be able to prove that fatalism is wrong , namely , by actually doing something about it .
i 'm going to do that in two steps .
the first one i 'm going to talk about is how to get from a relatively modest amount of life extension -- which i 'm going to define as 30 years , applied to people who are already in middle - age when you start -- to a point which can genuinely be called defeating aging .
namely , essentially an elimination of the relationship between how old you are and how likely you are to die in the next year -- or indeed , to get sick in the first place .
and of course , the last thing i 'm going to talk about is how to reach that intermediate step , that point of maybe 30 years life extension .
so i 'm going to start with why we should .
now , i want to ask a question .
hands up : anyone in the audience who is in favor of malaria ?
that was easy . ok .
ok . hands up : anyone in the audience who 's not sure whether malaria is a good thing or a bad thing ?
ok . so we all think malaria is a bad thing .
that 's very good news , because i thought that was what the answer would be .
now the thing is , i would like to put it to you that the main reason why we think that malaria is a bad thing is because of a characteristic of malaria that it shares with aging .
and here is that characteristic .
the only real difference is that aging kills considerably more people than malaria does .
now , i like in an audience , in britain especially , to talk about the comparison with foxhunting , which is something that was banned after a long struggle , by the government not very many months ago .
i mean , i know i 'm with a sympathetic audience here , but , as we know , a lot of people are not entirely persuaded by this logic .
and this is actually a rather good comparison , it seems to me .
you know , a lot of people said , " well , you know , city boys have no business telling us rural types what to do with our time .
it 's a traditional part of the way of life , and we should be allowed to carry on doing it .
it 's ecologically sound ; it stops the population explosion of foxes . "
but ultimately , the government prevailed in the end , because the majority of the british public , and certainly the majority of members of parliament , came to the conclusion that it was really something that should not be tolerated in a civilized society .
and i think that human aging shares all of these characteristics in spades .
what part of this do people not understand ?
it 's not just about life , of course -- -- it 's about healthy life , you know -- getting frail and miserable and dependent is no fun , whether or not dying may be fun .
so really , this is how i would like to describe it .
it 's a global trance .
these are the sorts of unbelievable excuses that people give for aging .
and , i mean , ok , i 'm not actually saying that these excuses are completely valueless .
there are some good points to be made here , things that we ought to be thinking about , forward planning so that nothing goes too -- well , so that we minimize the turbulence when we actually figure out how to fix aging .
but these are completely crazy , when you actually remember your sense of proportion .
you know , these are arguments ; these are things that would be legitimate to be concerned about .
but the question is , are they so dangerous -- these risks of doing something about aging -- that they outweigh the downside of doing the opposite , namely , leaving aging as it is ?
are these so bad that they outweigh condemning 100,000 people a day to an unnecessarily early death ?
you know , if you have n't got an argument that 's that strong , then just do n't waste my time , is what i say .
now , there is one argument that some people do think really is that strong , and here it is .
people worry about overpopulation ; they say , " well , if we fix aging , no one 's going to die to speak of , or at least the death toll is going to be much lower , only from crossing st . giles carelessly .
and therefore , we 're not going to be able to have many kids , and kids are really important to most people . "
and that 's true .
and you know , a lot of people try to fudge this question , and give answers like this .
i do n't agree with those answers . i think they basically do n't work .
i think it 's true , that we will face a dilemma in this respect .
we will have to decide whether to have a low birth rate , or a high death rate .
a high death rate will , of course , arise from simply rejecting these therapies , in favor of carrying on having a lot of kids .
and , i say that that 's fine -- the future of humanity is entitled to make that choice .
what 's not fine is for us to make that choice on behalf of the future .
if we vacillate , hesitate , and do not actually develop these therapies , then we are condemning a whole cohort of people -- who would have been young enough and healthy enough to benefit from those therapies , but will not be , because we have n't developed them as quickly as we could -- we 'll be denying those people an indefinite life span , and i consider that that is immoral .
that 's my answer to the overpopulation question .
right . so the next thing is , now why should we get a little bit more active on this ?
and the fundamental answer is that the pro-aging trance is not as dumb as it looks .
it 's actually a sensible way of coping with the inevitability of aging .
aging is ghastly , but it 's inevitable , so , you know , we 've got to find some way to put it out of our minds , and it 's rational to do anything that we might want to do , to do that .
like , for example , making up these ridiculous reasons why aging is actually a good thing after all .
but of course , that only works when we have both of these components .
and as soon as the inevitability bit becomes a little bit unclear -- and we might be in range of doing something about aging -- this becomes part of the problem .
this pro-aging trance is what stops us from agitating about these things .
and that 's why we have to really talk about this a lot -- evangelize , i will go so far as to say , quite a lot -- in order to get people 's attention , and make people realize that they are in a trance in this regard .
so that 's all i 'm going to say about that .
i 'm now going to talk about feasibility .
and the fundamental reason , i think , why we feel that aging is inevitable is summed up in a definition of aging that i 'm giving here .
a very simple definition .
aging is a side effect of being alive in the first place , which is to say , metabolism .
this is not a completely tautological statement ; it 's a reasonable statement .
aging is basically a process that happens to inanimate objects like cars , and it also happens to us , despite the fact that we have a lot of clever self-repair mechanisms , because those self-repair mechanisms are not perfect .
so basically , metabolism , which is defined as basically everything that keeps us alive from one day to the next , has side effects .
those side effects accumulate and eventually cause pathology .
that 's a fine definition . so we can put it this way : we can say that , you know , we have this chain of events .
and there are really two games in town , according to most people , with regard to postponing aging .
they 're what i 'm calling here the " gerontology approach " and the " geriatrics approach . "
the geriatrician will intervene late in the day , when pathology is becoming evident , and the geriatrician will try and hold back the sands of time , and stop the accumulation of side effects from causing the pathology quite so soon .
of course , it 's a very short - term - ist strategy ; it 's a losing battle , because the things that are causing the pathology are becoming more abundant as time goes on .
the gerontology approach looks much more promising on the surface , because , you know , prevention is better than cure .
but unfortunately the thing is that we do n't understand metabolism very well .
in fact , we have a pitifully poor understanding of how organisms work -- even cells we 're not really too good on yet .
we 've discovered things like , for example , rna interference only a few years ago , and this is a really fundamental component of how cells work .
basically , gerontology is a fine approach in the end , but it is not an approach whose time has come when we 're talking about intervention .
so then , what do we do about that ?
i mean , that 's a fine logic , that sounds pretty convincing , pretty ironclad , does n't it ?
but it is n't .
before i tell you why it is n't , i 'm going to go a little bit into what i 'm calling step two .
just suppose , as i said , that we do acquire -- let 's say we do it today for the sake of argument -- the ability to confer 30 extra years of healthy life on people who are already in middle age , let 's say 55 .
i 'm going to call that " robust human rejuvenation . " ok .
what would that actually mean for how long people of various ages today -- or equivalently , of various ages at the time that these therapies arrive -- would actually live ?
in order to answer that question -- you might think it 's simple , but it 's not simple .
we can n't just say , " well , if they 're young enough to benefit from these therapies , then they 'll live 30 years longer . "
that 's the wrong answer .
and the reason it 's the wrong answer is because of progress .
there are two sorts of technological progress really , for this purpose .
there are fundamental , major breakthroughs , and there are incremental refinements of those breakthroughs .
now , they differ a great deal in terms of the predictability of time frames .
fundamental breakthroughs : very hard to predict how long it 's going to take to make a fundamental breakthrough .
it was a very long time ago that we decided that flying would be fun , and it took us until 1903 to actually work out how to do it .
but after that , things were pretty steady and pretty uniform .
i think this is a reasonable sequence of events that happened in the progression of the technology of powered flight .
we can think , really , that each one is sort of beyond the imagination of the inventor of the previous one , if you like .
the incremental advances have added up to something which is not incremental anymore .
this is the sort of thing you see after a fundamental breakthrough .
and you see it in all sorts of technologies .
computers : you can look at a more or less parallel time line , happening of course a bit later .
you can look at medical care . i mean , hygiene , vaccines , antibiotics -- you know , the same sort of time frame .
so i think that actually step two , that i called a step a moment ago , is n't a step at all .
that in fact , the people who are young enough to benefit from these first therapies that give this moderate amount of life extension , even though those people are already middle - aged when the therapies arrive , will be at some sort of cusp .
they will mostly survive long enough to receive improved treatments that will give them a further 30 or maybe 50 years .
in other words , they will be staying ahead of the game .
the therapies will be improving faster than the remaining imperfections in the therapies are catching up with us .
this is a very important point for me to get across .
because , you know , most people , when they hear that i predict that a lot of people alive today are going to live to 1,000 or more , they think that i 'm saying that we 're going to invent therapies in the next few decades that are so thoroughly eliminating aging that those therapies will let us live to 1,000 or more .
i 'm not saying that at all .
i 'm saying that the rate of improvement of those therapies will be enough .
they 'll never be perfect , but we 'll be able to fix the things that 200 - year - olds die of , before we have any 200 - year - olds .
and the same for 300 and 400 and so on .
i decided to give this a little name , which is " longevity escape velocity . "
well , it seems to get the point across .
so , these trajectories here are basically how we would expect people to live , in terms of remaining life expectancy , as measured by their health , for given ages that they were at the time that these therapies arrive .
if you 're already 100 , or even if you 're 80 -- and an average 80 - year - old , we probably can n't do a lot for you with these therapies , because you 're too close to death 's door for the really initial , experimental therapies to be good enough for you .
you won n't be able to withstand them .
but if you 're only 50 , then there 's a chance that you might be able to pull out of the dive and , you know -- -- eventually get through this and start becoming biologically younger in a meaningful sense , in terms of your youthfulness , both physical and mental , and in terms of your risk of death from age - related causes .
and of course , if you 're a bit younger than that , then you 're never really even going to get near to being fragile enough to die of age - related causes .
so this is a genuine conclusion that i come to , that the first 150 - year - old -- we do n't know how old that person is today , because we do n't know how long it 's going to take to get these first - generation therapies .
but irrespective of that age , i 'm claiming that the first person to live to 1,000 -- subject of course , to , you know , global catastrophes -- is actually , probably , only about 10 years younger than the first 150 - year - old .
and that 's quite a thought .
alright , so finally i 'm going to spend the rest of the talk , my last seven - and - a - half minutes , on step one ; namely , how do we actually get to this moderate amount of life extension that will allow us to get to escape velocity ?
and in order to do that , i need to talk about mice a little bit .
i have a corresponding milestone to robust human rejuvenation .
i 'm calling it " robust mouse rejuvenation , " not very imaginatively .
and this is what it is .
i say we 're going to take a long - lived strain of mouse , which basically means mice that live about three years on average .
we do exactly nothing to them until they 're already two years old .
and then we do a whole bunch of stuff to them , and with those therapies , we get them to live , on average , to their fifth birthday .
so , in other words , we add two years -- we treble their remaining lifespan , starting from the point that we started the therapies .
the question then is , what would that actually mean for the time frame until we get to the milestone i talked about earlier for humans ?
which we can now , as i 've explained , equivalently call either robust human rejuvenation or longevity escape velocity .
secondly , what does it mean for the public 's perception of how long it 's going to take for us to get to those things , starting from the time we get the mice ?
and thirdly , the question is , what will it do to actually how much people want it ?
and it seems to me that the first question is entirely a biology question , and it 's extremely hard to answer .
one has to be very speculative , and many of my colleagues would say that we should not do this speculation , that we should simply keep our counsel until we know more .
i say that 's nonsense .
i say we absolutely are irresponsible if we stay silent on this .
we need to give our best guess as to the time frame , in order to give people a sense of proportion so that they can assess their priorities .
so , i say that we have a 50/50 chance of reaching this rhr milestone , robust human rejuvenation , within 15 years from the point that we get to robust mouse rejuvenation .
15 years from the robust mouse .
the public 's perception will probably be somewhat better than that .
the public tends to underestimate how difficult scientific things are .
so they 'll probably think it 's five years away .
they 'll be wrong , but that actually won n't matter too much .
and finally , of course , i think it 's fair to say that a large part of the reason why the public is so ambivalent about aging now is the global trance i spoke about earlier , the coping strategy .
that will be history at this point , because it will no longer be possible to believe that aging is inevitable in humans , since it 's been postponed so very effectively in mice .
so we 're likely to end up with a very strong change in people 's attitudes , and of course that has enormous implications .
so in order to tell you now how we 're going to get these mice , i 'm going to add a little bit to my description of aging .
i 'm going to use this word " damage " to denote these intermediate things that are caused by metabolism and that eventually cause pathology .
because the critical thing about this is that even though the damage only eventually causes pathology , the damage itself is caused ongoing - ly throughout life , starting before we 're born .
but it is not part of metabolism itself .
and this turns out to be useful .
because we can re-draw our original diagram this way .
we can say that , fundamentally , the difference between gerontology and geriatrics is that gerontology tries to inhibit the rate at which metabolism lays down this damage .
and i 'm going to explain exactly what damage is in concrete biological terms in a moment .
and geriatricians try to hold back the sands of time by stopping the damage converting into pathology .
and the reason it 's a losing battle is because the damage is continuing to accumulate .
so there 's a third approach , if we look at it this way .
we can call it the " engineering approach , " and i claim that the engineering approach is within range .
the engineering approach does not intervene in any processes .
it does not intervene in this process or this one .
and that 's good because it means that it 's not a losing battle , and it 's something that we are within range of being able to do , because it does n't involve improving on evolution .
the engineering approach simply says , " let 's go and periodically repair all of these various types of damage -- not necessarily repair them completely , but repair them quite a lot , so that we keep the level of damage down below the threshold that must exist , that causes it to be pathogenic . "
we know that this threshold exists , because we do n't get age - related diseases until we 're in middle age , even though the damage has been accumulating since before we were born .
why do i say that we 're in range ? well , this is basically it .
the point about this slide is actually the bottom .
if we try to say which bits of metabolism are important for aging , we will be here all night , because basically all of metabolism is important for aging in one way or another .
this list is just for illustration ; it is incomplete .
the list on the right is also incomplete .
it 's a list of types of pathology that are age - related , and it 's just an incomplete list .
but i would like to claim to you that this list in the middle is actually complete -- this is the list of types of thing that qualify as damage , side effects of metabolism that cause pathology in the end , or that might cause pathology .
and there are only seven of them .
they 're categories of things , of course , but there 's only seven of them .
cell loss , mutations in chromosomes , mutations in the mitochondria and so on .
first of all , i 'd like to give you an argument for why that list is complete .
of course one can make a biological argument .
one can say , " ok , what are we made of ? "
we 're made of cells and stuff between cells .
what can damage accumulate in ?
the answer is : long - lived molecules , because if a short - lived molecule undergoes damage , but then the molecule is destroyed -- like by a protein being destroyed by proteolysis -- then the damage is gone , too .
it 's got to be long - lived molecules .
so , these seven things were all under discussion in gerontology a long time ago and that is pretty good news , because it means that , you know , we 've come a long way in biology in these 20 years , so the fact that we have n't extended this list is a pretty good indication that there 's no extension to be done .
however , it 's better than that ; we actually know how to fix them all , in mice , in principle -- and what i mean by in principle is , we probably can actually implement these fixes within a decade .
some of them are partially implemented already , the ones at the top .
i have n't got time to go through them at all , but my conclusion is that , if we can actually get suitable funding for this , then we can probably develop robust mouse rejuvenation in only 10 years , but we do need to get serious about it .
we do need to really start trying .
so of course , there are some biologists in the audience , and i want to give some answers to some of the questions that you may have .
you may have been dissatisfied with this talk , but fundamentally you have to go and read this stuff .
i 've published a great deal on this ; i cite the experimental work on which my optimism is based , and there 's quite a lot of detail there .
the detail is what makes me confident of my rather aggressive time frames that i 'm predicting here .
so if you think that i 'm wrong , you 'd better damn well go and find out why you think i 'm wrong .
and of course the main thing is that you should n't trust people who call themselves gerontologists because , as with any radical departure from previous thinking within a particular field , you know , you expect people in the mainstream to be a bit resistant and not really to take it seriously .
so , you know , you 've got to actually do your homework , in order to understand whether this is true .
and we 'll just end with a few things .
one thing is , you know , you 'll be hearing from a guy in the next session who said some time ago that he could sequence the human genome in half no time , and everyone said , " well , it 's obviously impossible . "
and you know what happened .
so , you know , this does happen .
we have various strategies -- there 's the methuselah mouse prize , which is basically an incentive to innovate , and to do what you think is going to work , and you get money for it if you win .
there 's a proposal to actually put together an institute .
this is what 's going to take a bit of money .
but , i mean , look -- how long does it take to spend that on the war in iraq ?
not very long . ok .
it 's got to be philanthropic , because profits distract biotech , but it 's basically got a 90 percent chance , i think , of succeeding in this .
and i think we know how to do it . and i 'll stop there .
thank you .
ok . i do n't know if there 's going to be any questions but i thought i would give people the chance .
audience : since you 've been talking about aging and trying to defeat it , why is it that you make yourself appear like an old man ?
ag : because i am an old man . i am actually 158 .
audience : species on this planet have evolved with immune systems to fight off all the diseases so that individuals live long enough to procreate .
however , as far as i know , all the species have evolved to actually die , so when cells divide , the telomerase get shorter , and eventually species die .
so , why does -- evolution has -- seems to have selected against immortality , when it is so advantageous , or is evolution just incomplete ?
ag : brilliant . thank you for asking a question that i can answer with an uncontroversial answer .
i 'm going to tell you the genuine mainstream answer to your question , which i happen to agree with , which is that , no , aging is not a product of selection , evolution ; [ aging ] is simply a product of evolutionary neglect .
in other words , we have aging because it 's hard work not to have aging ; you need more genetic pathways , more sophistication in your genes in order to age more slowly , and that carries on being true the longer you push it out .
so , to the extent that evolution does n't matter , does n't care whether genes are passed on by individuals , living a long time or by procreation , there 's a certain amount of modulation of that , which is why different species have different lifespans , but that 's why there are no immortal species .
the genes do n't care but we do ?
ag : that 's right .
audience : hello . i read somewhere that in the last 20 years , the average lifespan of basically anyone on the planet has grown by 10 years .
if i project that , that would make me think that i would live until 120 if i do n't crash on my motorbike .
that means that i 'm one of your subjects to become a 1,000 - year - old ?
ag : if you lose a bit of weight .
your numbers are a bit out .
the standard numbers are that lifespans have been growing at between one and two years per decade .
so , it 's not quite as good as you might think , you might hope .
but i intend to move it up to one year per year as soon as possible .
audience : i was told that many of the brain cells we have as adults are actually in the human embryo , and that the brain cells last 80 years or so .
if that is indeed true , biologically are there implications in the world of rejuvenation ?
if there are cells in my body that live all 80 years , as opposed to a typical , you know , couple of months ?
ag : there are technical implications certainly .
basically what we need to do is replace cells in those few areas of the brain that lose cells at a respectable rate , especially neurons , but we do n't want to replace them any faster than that -- or not much faster anyway , because replacing them too fast would degrade cognitive function .
what i said about there being no non-aging species earlier on was a little bit of an oversimplification .
there are species that have no aging -- hydra for example -- but they do it by not having a nervous system -- and not having any tissues in fact that rely for their function on very long - lived cells .
lewis pugh : my mind - shifting everest swim 
 after he swam the north pole , lewis pugh vowed never to take another cold - water dip . then he heard of lake imja in the himalayas , created by recent glacial melting , and lake pumori , a body of water at an altitude of 5300 m on everest -- and so began a journey that would teach him a radical new way to approach swimming and think about climate change .
last year when i was here , i was speaking to you about a swim which i did across the north pole .
and while that swim took place three years ago , i can remember it as if it was yesterday .
i remember standing on the edge of the ice , about to dive into the water , and thinking to myself , i have never ever seen any place on this earth which is just so frightening .
the water is completely black .
the water is minus 1.7 degrees centigrade , or 29 degrees fahrenheit .
it 's flipping freezing in that water .
and then a thought came across my mind : if things go pear - shaped on this swim , how long will it take for my frozen body to sink the four and a half kilometers to the bottom of the ocean ?
and then i said to myself , i 've just got to get this thought out of my mind as quickly as possible .
and the only way i can dive into that freezing cold water and swim a kilometer is by listening to my ipod and really revving myself up , listening to everything from beautiful opera all the way across to puff daddy , and then committing myself a hundred percent -- there is nothing more powerful than the made - up mind -- and then walking up to the edge of the ice and just diving into the water .
and that swim took me 18 minutes and 50 seconds , and it felt like 18 days .
and i remember getting out of the water and my hands feeling so painful and looking down at my fingers , and my fingers were literally the size of sausages because -- you know , we 're made partially of water -- when water freezes it expands , and so the cells in my fingers had frozen and expanded and burst .
and the most immediate thought when i came out of that water was the following : i 'm never , ever going to do another cold water swim in my life again .
anyway , last year , i heard about the himalayas and the melting of the -- and the melting of the glaciers because of climate change .
i heard about this lake , lake imja .
this lake has been formed in the last couple of years because of the melting of the glacier .
the glacier 's gone all the way up the mountain and left in its place this big lake .
and i firmly believe that what we 're seeing in the himalayas is the next great , big battleground on this earth .
nearly two billion people -- so one in three people on this earth -- rely on the water from the himalayas .
and with a population increasing as quickly as it is , and with the water supply from these glaciers -- because of climate change -- decreasing so much , i think we have a real risk of instability .
north , you 've got china ; south , you 've india , pakistan , bangladesh , all these countries .
and so i decided to walk up to mt . everest , the highest mountain on this earth , and go and do a symbolic swim underneath the summit of mt . everest .
now , i do n't know if any of you have had the opportunity to go to mt . everest , but it 's quite an ordeal getting up there .
28 great , big , powerful yaks carrying all the equipment up onto this mountain -- i do n't just have my speedo , but there 's a big film crew who then send all the images around the world .
the other thing which was so challenging about this swim is not just the altitude .
i wanted to do the swim at 5,300 meters above sea level .
so it 's right up in the heavens .
it 's very , very difficult to breath . you get altitude sickness .
i feels like you 've got a man standing behind you with a hammer just hitting your head all the time .
that 's not the worst part of it .
the worst part was this year was the year where they decided to do a big cleanup operation on mt . everest .
many , many people have died on mt . everest , and this was the year they decided to go and recover all the bodies of the mountaineers and then bring them down the mountain .
and when you 're walking up the mountain to attempt to do something which no human has ever done before , and , in fact , no fish -- there are no fish up there swimming at 5,300 meters -- when you 're trying to do that , and then the bodies are coming past you , it humbles you , and you also realize very , very clearly that nature is so much more powerful than we are .
and we walked up this pathway , all the way up .
and to the right hand side of us was this great khumbu glacier .
and all the way along the glacier we saw these big pools of melting ice .
and then we got up to this small lake underneath the summit of mt . everest , and i prepared myself the same way as i 've always prepared myself , for this swim which was going to be so very difficult .
i put on my ipod , i listened to some music , i got myself as aggressive as possible -- but controlled aggression -- and then i hurled myself into that water .
i swam as quickly as i could for the first hundred meters , and then i realized very , very quickly , i had a huge problem on my hands .
i could barely breathe .
i was gasping for air .
i then began to choke , and then it quickly led to me vomiting in the water .
and it all happened so quickly : i then -- i do n't know how it happened -- but i went underwater .
and luckily , the water was quite shallow , and i was able to push myself off the bottom of the lake and get up and then take another gasp of air .
and then i said , carry on . carry on . carry on .
i carried on for another five or six strokes , and then i had nothing in my body , and i went down to the bottom of the lake .
and i do n't where i got it from , but i was able to somehow pull myself up and as quickly as possible get to the side of the lake .
i 've heard it said that drowning is the most peaceful death that you can have .
i have never , ever heard such utter bollocks .
it is the most frightening and panicky feeling that you can have .
i got myself to the side of the lake .
my crew grabbed me , and then we walked as quickly as we could down -- over the rubble -- down to our camp .
and there , we sat down , and we did a debrief about what had gone wrong there on mt . everest .
and my team just gave it to me straight .
they said , lewis , you need to have a radical tactical shift if you want to do this swim .
every single thing which you have learned in the past 23 years of swimming , you must forget .
every single thing which you learned when you were serving in the british army , about speed and aggression , you put that to one side .
we want you to walk up the hill in another two days ' time .
take some time to rest and think about things .
we want you to walk up the mountain in two days ' time , and instead of swimming fast , swim as slowly as possible .
instead of swimming crawl , swim breaststroke .
and remember , never ever swim with aggression .
this is the time to swim with real humility .
and so we walked back up to the mountain two days later .
and i stood there on the edge of the lake , and i looked up at mt . everest -- and she is one of the most beautiful mountains on the earth -- and i said to myself , just do this slowly .
and i swam across the lake .
and i can n't begin to tell you how good i felt when i came to the other side .
but i learned two very , very important lessons there on mt . everest , and i thank my team of sherpas who taught me this .
the first one is that just because something has worked in the past so well , does n't mean it 's going to work in the future .
and similarly , now , before i do anything , i ask myself what type of mindset do i require to successfully complete a task .
and taking that into the world of climate change -- which is , frankly , the mt . everest of all problems -- just because we 've lived the way we have lived for so long , just because we have consumed the way we have for so long and populated the earth the way we have for so long , does n't mean that we can carry on the way we are carrying on .
the warning signs are all there .
when i was born , the world 's population was 3.5 billion people .
we 're now 6.8 billion people , and we 're expected to be 9 billion people by 2050 .
and then the second lesson , the radical , tactical shift .
and i 've come here to ask you today : what radical tactical shift can you take in your relationship to the environment , which will ensure that our children and our grandchildren live in a safe world and a secure world , and most importantly , in a sustainable world ?
and i ask you , please , to go away from here and think about that one radical tactical shift which you could make , which will make that big difference , and then commit a hundred percent to doing it .
blog about it , tweet about it , talk about it , and commit a hundred percent , because very , very few things are impossible to achieve if we really put our whole minds to it .
so thank you very , very much .
john hodgman : design , explained .
 john hodgman , comedian and resident expert , " explains " the design of three iconic modern objects . & lt ; em & gt ;& lt ;/ em & gt ;
today i 'm going to unpack for you three examples of iconic design , and it makes perfect sense that i should be the one to do it because i have a bachelor 's degree in literature .
but i 'm also a famous minor television personality and an avid collector of design within reach catalogs , so i pretty much know everything there is .
now , i 'm sure you recognize this object ; many of you probably saw it as you were landing your private zeppelins at los angeles international airport over the past couple of days .
this is known as the theme building ; that is its name for reasons that are still very murky .
and it is perhaps the best example we have in los angeles of ancient extraterrestrial architecture .
it was first excavated in 1961 as they were building lax , although scientists believe that it dates back to the year 2000 before common era , when it was used as a busy transdimensional space port by the ancient astronauts who first colonized this planet and raised our species from savagery by giving us the gift of written language and technology and the gift of revolving restaurants .
it is thought to have been a replacement for the older space ports located , of course , at stonehenge and considered to be quite an improvement due to the uncluttered design , the lack of druids hanging around all the time and obviously , the much better access to parking .
when it was uncovered , it ushered in a new era of streamlined , archaically futuristic design called googie , which came to be synonymous with the jet age , a misnomer .
after all , the ancient astronauts who used it did not travel by jet very often , preferring instead to travel by feathered serpent powered by crystal skulls .
ah yes , a table .
we use these every day .
and on top of it , the juicy salif .
this is a design by philippe starck , who i believe is in the audience at this very moment .
and you can tell it is a starck design by its precision , its playfulness , its innovation and its promise of imminent violence .
it is a design that challenges your intuition -- it is not what you think it is when you first see it .
it is not a fork designed to grab three hors d ' oeuvres at a time , which would be useful out in the lobby , i would say .
and despite its obvious influence by the ancient astronauts and its space agey - ness and tripodism , it is not something designed to attach to your brain and suck out your thoughts .
it is in fact a citrus juicer and when i say that , you never see it as anything else again .
it is also not a monument to design , it is a monument to design 's utility .
you can take it home with you , unlike the theme building , which will stay where it is forever .
this is affordable and can come home with you and , as such , it can sit on your kitchen counter -- it can n't go in your drawers ; trust me , i found that out the hard way -- and make your kitchen counter into a monument to design .
one other thing about it , if you do have one at home , let me tell you one of the features you may not know : when you fall asleep , it comes alive and it walks around your house and goes through your mail and watches you as you sleep .
okay , what is this object ?
i have no idea . i do n't know what that thing is .
it looks terrible . is it a little hot plate ?
i do n't get it .
does anyone know ? chi ?
it 's an ... iphone . iphone .
oh yes , that 's right , i remember those ; i had my whole bathroom tiles redone with those back in the good old days .
no , i have an iphone . of course i do .
here is my well - loved iphone .
i do so many things on this little device .
i like to read books on it .
more than that , i like to buy books on it that i never have to feel guilty about not reading because they go in here and i never look at them again and it 's perfect .
i use it every day to measure the weight of an ox , for example .
every now and then , i admit that i complete a phone call on it occasionally .
and yet i forget about it all the time .
this is a design that once you saw it , you forgot about it .
it is easy to forget the gasp - inducement that occurred in 2007 when you first touched this thing because it became so quickly pervasive and because of how instantly we adopted these gestures and made it an extension of our life .
unlike the theme building , this is not alien technology .
or i should say , what it did was it took technology which , unlike people in this room , to many other people in the world , still feels very alien , and made it immediately and instantly feel familiar and intimate .
and unlike the juicy salif , it does not threaten to attach itself to your brain , rather , it simply attaches itself to your brain .
and you did n't even notice it happened .
so there you go . my name is john hodgman .
i just explained design .
thank you very much .
lakshmi pratury : the lost art of letter - writing 
 lakshmi pratury remembers the lost art of letter - writing and shares a series of notes her father wrote to her before he died . her short but heartfelt talk may inspire you to set pen to paper , too .
so i thought , " i will talk about death . "
seemed to be the passion today .
actually , it 's not about death .
it 's inevitable , terrible , but really what i want to talk about is , i 'm just fascinated by the legacy people leave when they die .
that 's what i want to talk about .
so art buchwald left his legacy of humor with a video that appeared soon after he died , saying , " hi ! i 'm art buchwald , and i just died . "
and mike , who i met at galapagos , a trip which i won at ted , is leaving notes on cyberspace where he is chronicling his journey through cancer .
and my father left me a legacy of his handwriting through letters and a notebook .
in the last two years of his life , when he was sick , he filled a notebook with his thoughts about me .
he wrote about my strengths , weaknesses , and gentle suggestions for improvement , quoting specific incidents , and held a mirror to my life .
after he died , i realized that no one writes to me anymore .
handwriting is a disappearing art .
i 'm all for email and thinking while typing , but why give up old habits for new ?
why can n't we have letter writing and email exchange in our lives ?
there are times when i want to trade all those years that i was too busy to sit with my dad and chat with him , and trade all those years for one hug .
but too late .
but that 's when i take out his letters and i read them , and the paper that touched his hand is in mine , and i feel connected to him .
so maybe we all need to leave our children with a value legacy , and not a financial one .
a value for things with a personal touch -- an autograph book , a soul - searching letter .
if a fraction of this powerful ted audience could be inspired to buy a beautiful paper -- john , it 'll be a recycled one -- and write a beautiful letter to someone they love , we actually may start a revolution where our children may go to penmanship classes .
so what do i plan to leave for my son ?
i collect autograph books , and those of you authors in the audience know i hound you for them -- and cds too , tracy .
i plan to publish my own notebook .
as i witnessed my father 's body being swallowed by fire , i sat by his funeral pyre and wrote .
i have no idea how i 'm going to do it , but i am committed to compiling his thoughts and mine into a book , and leave that published book for my son .
i 'd like to end with a few verses of what i wrote at my father 's cremation .
and those linguists , please pardon the grammar , because i 've not looked at it in the last 10 years .
i took it out for the first time to come here .
" picture in a frame , ashes in a bottle , boundless energy confined in the bottle , forcing me to deal with reality , forcing me to deal with being grown up .
i hear you and i know that you would want me to be strong , but right now , i am being sucked down , surrounded and suffocated by these raging emotional waters , craving to cleanse my soul , trying to emerge on a firm footing one more time , to keep on fighting and flourishing just as you taught me .
your encouraging whispers in my whirlpool of despair , holding me and heaving me to shores of sanity , to live again and to love again . "
thank you .
andrew blum : discover the physical side of the internet 
 when a squirrel chewed through a cable and knocked him offline , journalist andrew blum started wondering what the internet was really made of . so he set out to go see it -- the underwater cables , secret switches and other physical bits that make up the net .
i 've always written primarily about architecture , about buildings , and writing about architecture is based on certain assumptions .
an architect designs a building , and it becomes a place , or many architects design many buildings , and it becomes a city , and regardless of this complicated mix of forces of politics and culture and economics that shapes these places , at the end of the day , you can go and you can visit them . you can walk around them .
you can smell them . you can get a feel for them .
you can experience their sense of place .
but what was striking to me over the last several years was that less and less was i going out into the world , and more and more , i was sitting in front of my computer screen .
and especially since about 2007 , when i got an iphone , i was not only sitting in front of my screen all day , but i was also getting up at the end of the day and looking at this little screen that i carried in my pocket .
and what was surprising to me was how quickly my relationship to the physical world had changed .
in this very short period of time , you know , whether you call it the last 15 years or so of being online , or the last , you know , four or five years of being online all the time , our relationship to our surroundings had changed in that our attention is constantly divided . you know , we 're both looking inside the screens and we 're looking out in the world around us .
and what was even more striking to me , and what i really got hung up on , was that the world inside the screen seemed to have no physical reality of its own .
if you went and looked for images of the internet , this was all that you found , this famous image by opte of the internet as the kind of milky way , this infinite expanse where we do n't seem to be anywhere on it .
we can never seem to grasp it in its totality .
it 's always reminded me of the apollo image of the earth , the blue marble picture , and it 's similarly meant to suggest , i think , that we can n't really understand it as a whole .
we 're always sort of small in the face of its expanse .
so if there was this world and this screen , and if there was the physical world around me , i could n't ever get them together in the same place .
and then this happened .
my internet broke one day , as it occasionally does , and the cable guy came to fix it , and he started with the dusty clump of cables behind the couch , and he followed it to the front of my building and into the basement and out to the back yard , and there was this big jumble of cables against the wall .
and then he saw a squirrel running along the wire , and he said , " there 's your problem .
a squirrel is chewing on your internet . "
and this seemed astounding . the internet is a transcendent idea . it 's a set of protocols that has changed everything from shopping to dating to revolutions .
it was unequivocally not something a squirrel could chew on .
but that in fact seemed to be the case .
a squirrel had in fact chewed on my internet .
and then i got this image in my head of what would happen if you yanked the wire from the wall and if you started to follow it . where would it go ?
was the internet actually a place that you could visit ?
could i go there ? who would i meet ?
you know , was there something actually out there ?
and the answer , by all accounts , was no .
this was the internet , this black box with a red light on it , as represented in the sitcom " the it crowd . "
normally it lives on the top of big ben , because that 's where you get the best reception , but they had negotiated that their colleague could borrow it for the afternoon to use in an office presentation .
the elders of the internet were willing to part with it for a short while , and she looks at it and she says , " this is the internet ? the whole internet ? is it heavy ? "
they say , " of course not , the internet does n't weigh anything . "
and i was embarrassed . i was looking for this thing that only fools seem to look for .
the internet was that amorphous blob , or it was a silly black box with a blinking red light on it .
it was n't a real world out there .
but , in fact , it is . there is a real world of the internet out there , and that 's what i spent about two years visiting , these places of the internet . i was in large data centers that use as much power as the cities in which they sit , and i visited places like this , 60 hudson street in new york , which is one of the buildings in the world , one of a very short list of buildings , about a dozen buildings , where more networks of the internet connect to each other than anywhere else .
and that connection is an unequivocally physical process .
it 's about the router of one network , a facebook or a google or a b.t. or a comcast or a time warner , whatever it is , connecting with usually a yellow fiber optic cable up into the ceiling and down into the router of another network , and that 's unequivocally physical , and it 's surprisingly intimate .
a building like 60 hudson , and a dozen or so others , has 10 times more networks connecting within it than the next tier of buildings .
there 's a very short list of these places .
and 60 hudson in particular is interesting because it 's home to about a half a dozen very important networks , which are the networks which serve the undersea cables that travel underneath the ocean that connect europe and america and connect all of us .
and it 's those cables in particular that i want to focus on .
if the internet is a global phenomenon , if we live in a global village , it 's because there are cables underneath the ocean , cables like this .
and in this dimension , they are incredibly small .
you can you hold them in your hand . they 're like a garden hose .
but in the other dimension they are incredibly expansive , as expansive as you can imagine .
they stretch across the ocean . they 're three or five or eight thousand miles in length , and if the material science and the computational technology is incredibly complicated , the basic physical process is shockingly simple . light goes in on one end of the ocean and comes out on the other , and it usually comes from a building called a landing station that 's often tucked away inconspicuously in a little seaside neighborhood , and there are amplifiers that sit on the ocean floor that look kind of like bluefin tuna , and every 50 miles they amplify the signal , and since the rate of transmission is incredibly fast , the basic unit is a 10 - gigabit - per - second wavelength of light , maybe a thousand times your own connection , or capable of carrying 10,000 video streams , but not only that , but you 'll put not just one wavelength of light through one of the fibers , but you 'll put maybe 50 or 60 or 70 different wavelengths or colors of light through a single fiber , and then you 'll have maybe eight fibers in a cable , four going in each direction .
and they 're tiny . they 're the thickness of a hair .
and then they connect to the continent somewhere .
they connect in a manhole like this . literally , this is where the 5,000 - mile cable plugs in .
this is in halifax , a cable that stretches from halifax to ireland .
and the landscape is changing . three years ago , when i started thinking about this , there was one cable down the western coast of africa , represented in this map by steve song as that thin black line .
now there are six cables and more coming , three down each coast .
because once a country gets plugged in by one cable , they realize that it 's not enough . if they 're going to build an industry around it , they need to know that their connection is n't tenuous but permanent , because if a cable breaks , you have to send a ship out into the water , throw a grappling hook over the side , pick it up , find the other end , and then fuse the two ends back together and then dump it over .
it 's an intensely , intensely physical process .
so this is my friend simon cooper , who until very recently worked for tata communications , the communications wing of tata , the big indian industrial conglomerate .
and i 've never met him . we 've only communicated via this telepresence system , which always makes me think of him as the man inside the internet .
and he is english . the undersea cable industry is dominated by englishmen , and they all seem to be 42 .
because they all started at the same time with the boom about 20 years ago .
and tata had gotten its start as a communications business when they bought two cables , one across the atlantic and one across the pacific , and proceeded to add pieces onto them , until they had built a belt around the world , which means they will send your bits to the east or the west .
they have -- this is literally a beam of light around the world , and if a cable breaks in the pacific , it 'll send it around the other direction . and then having done that , they started to look for places to wire next .
they looked for the unwired places , and that 's meant north and south , primarily these cables to africa .
but what amazes me is simon 's incredible geographic imagination .
he thinks about the world with this incredible expansiveness .
and i was particularly interested because i wanted to see one of these cables being built . see , you know , all the time online we experience these fleeting moments of connection , these sort of brief adjacencies , a tweet or a facebook post or an email , and it seemed like there was a physical corollary to that .
it seemed like there was a moment when the continent was being plugged in , and i wanted to see that .
and simon was working on a new cable , wacs , the west africa cable system , that stretched from lisbon down the west coast of africa , to cote d ' ivoire , to ghana , to nigeria , to cameroon .
and he said there was coming soon , depending on the weather , but he 'd let me know when , and so with about four days notice , he said to go to this beach south of lisbon , and a little after 9 , this guy will walk out of the water .
and he 'll be carrying a green nylon line , a lightweight line , called a messenger line , and that was the first link between sea and land , this link that would then be leveraged into this 9,000 - mile path of light .
then a bulldozer began to pull the cable in from this specialized cable landing ship , and it was floated on these buoys until it was in the right place .
then you can see the english engineers looking on .
and then , once it was in the right place , he got back in the water holding a big knife , and he cut each buoy off , and the buoy popped up into the air , and the cable dropped to the sea floor , and he did that all the way out to the ship , and when he got there , they gave him a glass of juice and a cookie , and then he jumped back in , and he swam back to shore , and then he lit a cigarette .
and then once that cable was on shore , they began to prepare to connect it to the other side , for the cable that had been brought down from the landing station .
and first they got it with a hacksaw , and then they start sort of shaving away at this plastic interior with a -- sort of working like chefs , and then finally they 're working like jewelers to get these hair - thin fibers to line up with the cable that had come down , and with this hole - punch machine they fuse it together .
and when you see these guys going at this cable with a hacksaw , you stop thinking about the internet as a cloud .
it starts to seem like an incredibly physical thing .
and what surprised me as well was that as much as this is based on the most sophisticated technology , as much as this is an incredibly new thing , the physical process itself has been around for a long time , and the culture is the same .
you see the local laborers . you see the english engineer giving directions in the background . and more importantly , the places are the same . these cables still connect these classic port cities , places like lisbon , mombasa , mumbai , singapore , new york .
and then the process on shore takes around three or four days , and then , when it 's done , they put the manhole cover back on top , and they push the sand over that , and we all forget about it .
and it seems to me that we talk a lot about the cloud , but every time we put something on the cloud , we give up some responsibility for it .
we are less connected to it . we let other people worry about it .
and that does n't seem right .
there 's a great neal stephenson line where he says that wired people should know something about wires .
and we should know , i think , we should know where our internet comes from , and we should know what it is that physically , physically connects us all .
thank you .
thanks .
dayananda saraswati : the profound journey of compassion 
 swami dayananda saraswati unravels the parallel paths of personal development and attaining true compassion . he walks us through each step of self-realization , from helpless infancy to the fearless act of caring for others .
a human child is born , and for quite a long time is a consumer .
it cannot be consciously a contributor .
it is helpless .
it does n't know how to survive , even though it is endowed with an instinct to survive .
it needs the help of mother , or a foster mother , to survive .
it can n't afford to doubt the person who tends the child .
it has to totally surrender , as one surrenders to an anesthesiologist .
it has to totally surrender .
that implies a lot of trust .
that implies the trusted person won n't violate the trust .
as the child grows , it begins to discover that the person trusted is violating the trust .
it does n't know even the word " violation . "
therefore , it has to blame itself , a wordless blame , which is more difficult to really resolve -- the wordless self-blame .
as the child grows to become an adult : so far , it has been a consumer , but the growth of a human being lies in his or her capacity to contribute , to be a contributor .
one cannot contribute unless one feels secure , one feels big , one feels : i have enough .
to be compassionate is not a joke .
it 's not that simple .
one has to discover a certain bigness in oneself .
that bigness should be centered on oneself , not in terms of money , not in terms of power you wield , not in terms of any status that you can command in the society , but it should be centered on oneself .
the self : you are self-aware .
on that self , it should be centered -- a bigness , a wholeness .
otherwise , compassion is just a word and a dream .
you can be compassionate occasionally , more moved by empathy than by compassion .
thank god we are empathetic .
when somebody 's in pain , we pick up the pain .
in a wimbledon final match , these two guys fight it out .
each one has got two games .
it can be anybody 's game .
what they have sweated so far has no meaning .
one person wins .
the tennis etiquette is , both the players have to come to the net and shake hands .
the winner boxes the air and kisses the ground , throws his shirt as though somebody is waiting for it .
and this guy has to come to the net .
when he comes to the net , you see , his whole face changes .
it looks as though he 's wishing that he did n't win .
why ? empathy .
that 's human heart .
no human heart is denied of that empathy .
no religion can demolish that by indoctrination .
no culture , no nation and nationalism -- nothing can touch it because it is empathy .
and that capacity to empathize is the window through which you reach out to people , you do something that makes a difference in somebody 's life -- even words , even time .
compassion is not defined in one form .
there 's no indian compassion .
there 's no american compassion .
it transcends nation , the gender , the age .
why ? because it is there in everybody .
it 's experienced by people occasionally .
then this occasional compassion , we are not talking about -- it will never remain occasional .
by mandate , you cannot make a person compassionate .
you can n't say , " please love me . "
love is something you discover .
it 's not an action , but in the english language , it is also an action .
i will come to it later .
so one has got to discover a certain wholeness .
i am going to cite the possibility of being whole , which is within our experience , everybody 's experience .
in spite of a very tragic life , one is happy in moments which are very few and far between .
and the one who is happy , even for a slapstick joke , accepts himself and also the scheme of things in which one finds oneself .
that means the whole universe , known things and unknown things .
all of them are totally accepted because you discover your wholeness in yourself .
the subject -- " me " -- and the object -- the scheme of things -- fuse into oneness , an experience nobody can say , " i am denied of , " an experience common to all and sundry .
that experience confirms that , in spite of all your limitations -- all your wants , desires , unfulfilled , and the credit cards and layoffs and , finally , baldness -- you can be happy .
but the extension of the logic is that you do n't need to fulfill your desire to be happy .
you are the very happiness , the wholeness that you want to be .
there 's no choice in this : that only confirms the reality that the wholeness cannot be different from you , cannot be minus you .
it has got to be you .
you cannot be a part of wholeness and still be whole .
your moment of happiness reveals that reality , that realization , that recognition : " maybe i am the whole .
maybe the swami is right .
maybe the swami is right . " you start your new life .
then everything becomes meaningful .
i have no more reason to blame myself .
if one has to blame oneself , one has a million reasons plus many .
but if i say , in spite of my body being limited -- if it is black it is not white , if it is white it is not black : body is limited any which way you look at it . limited .
your knowledge is limited , health is limited , and power is therefore limited , and the cheerfulness is going to be limited .
compassion is going to be limited .
everything is going to be limitless .
you cannot command compassion unless you become limitless , and nobody can become limitless , either you are or you are not . period .
and there is no way of your being not limitless too .
your own experience reveals , in spite of all limitations , you are the whole .
and the wholeness is the reality of you when you relate to the world .
it is love first .
when you relate to the world , the dynamic manifestation of the wholeness is , what we say , love .
and itself becomes compassion if the object that you relate to evokes that emotion .
then that again transforms into giving , into sharing .
you express yourself because you have compassion .
to discover compassion , you need to be compassionate .
to discover the capacity to give and share , you need to be giving and sharing .
there is no shortcut : it is like swimming by swimming .
you learn swimming by swimming .
you cannot learn swimming on a foam mattress and enter into water .
you learn swimming by swimming . you learn cycling by cycling .
you learn cooking by cooking , having some sympathetic people around you to eat what you cook .
and , therefore , what i say , you have to fake it and make it .
you need to .
my predecessor meant that .
you have to act it out .
you have to act compassionately .
there is no verb for compassion , but you have an adverb for compassion .
that 's interesting to me .
you act compassionately .
but then , how to act compassionately if you do n't have compassion ?
that is where you fake .
you fake it and make it . this is the mantra of the united states of america .
you fake it and make it .
you act compassionately as though you have compassion : grind your teeth , take all the support system .
if you know how to pray , pray .
ask for compassion .
let me act compassionately .
do it .
you 'll discover compassion and also slowly a relative compassion , and slowly , perhaps if you get the right teaching , you 'll discover compassion is a dynamic manifestation of the reality of yourself , which is oneness , wholeness , and that 's what you are .
with these words , thank you very much .
edith widder : how we found the giant squid 
 humankind has been looking for the giant squid since we first started taking pictures underwater . but the elusive deep - sea predator could never be caught on film . oceanographer and inventor edith widder shares the key insight -- and the teamwork -- that helped to capture the squid on film for the first time .
the kraken , a beast so terrifying it was said to devour men and ships and whales , and so enormous it could be mistaken for an island .
in assessing the merits of such tales , it 's probably wise to keep in mind that old sailor 's saw that the only difference between a fairytale and a sea story is a fairytale begins , " once upon a time , " and a sea story begins , " this ai n't no shit . "
every fish that gets away grows with every telling of the tale .
nevertheless , there are giants in the ocean , and we now have video proof , as those of you that saw the discovery channel documentary are no doubt aware .
i was one of the three scientists on this expedition that took place last summer off japan .
i 'm the short one .
the other two are dr. tsunemi kubodera and dr. steve o ' shea .
i owe my participation in this now - historic event to ted .
in 2010 , there was a ted event called mission blue held aboard the lindblad explorer in the galapagos as part of the fulfillment of sylvia earle 's ted wish .
i spoke about a new way of exploring the ocean , one that focuses on attracting animals instead of scaring them away .
mike degruy was also invited , and he spoke with great passion about his love of the ocean , and he also talked to me about applying my approach to something he 's been involved with for a very long time , which is the hunt for the giant squid .
it was mike that got me invited to the squid summit , a gathering of squid experts at the discovery channel that summer during shark week .
i gave a talk on unobtrusive viewing and optical luring of deep sea squid in which i emphasized the importance of using quiet , unobtrusive platforms for exploration .
this came out of hundreds of dives i have made , farting around in the dark using these platforms , and my impression that i saw more animals working from the submersible than i did with either of the remote - operated vehicles .
but that could just be because the submersible has a wider field of view .
but i also felt like i saw more animals working with the tiburon than the ventana , two vehicles with the same field of view but different propulsion systems .
so my suspicion was that it might have something to do with the amount of noise they make .
so i set up a hydrophone on the bottom of the ocean , and i had each of these fly by at the same speed and distance and recorded the sound they made .
the johnson sea - link -- -- which you can probably just barely hear here , uses electric thrusters -- very , very quiet .
the tiburon also uses electric powered thrusters .
it 's also pretty quiet , but a bit noisier .
but most deep - diving rovs these days use hydraulics and they sound like the ventana .
i think that 's got to be scaring a lot of animals away .
so for the deep sea squid hunt , i proposed using an optical lure attached to a camera platform with no thrusters , no motors , just a battery - powered camera , and the only illumination coming from red light that 's invisible to most deep - sea animals that are adapted to see primarily blue .
that 's visible to our eye , but it 's the equivalent of infrared in the deep sea .
so this camera platform , which we called the medusa , could just be thrown off the back of the ship , attached to a float at the surface with over 2,000 feet of line , it would just float around passively carried by the currents , and the only light visible to the animals in the deep would be the blue light of the optical lure , which we called the electronic jellyfish , or e - jelly , because it was designed to imitate the bioluminescent display of the common deep sea jellyfish atolla .
now , this pinwheel of light that the atolla produces is known as a bioluminescent burglar alarm and is a form of defense .
the reason that the electronic jellyfish worked as a lure is not because giant squid eat jellyfish , but it 's because this jellyfish only resorts to producing this light when it 's being chewed on by a predator and its only hope for escape may be to attract the attention of a larger predator that will attack its attacker and thereby afford it an opportunity for escape .
it 's a scream for help , a last - ditch attempt for escape , and a common form of defense in the deep sea .
the approach worked .
whereas all previous expeditions had failed to garner a single video glimpse of the giant , we managed six , and the first triggered wild excitement .
edith widder : oh my god . oh my god ! are you kidding me ? other scientists : oh ho ho ! that 's just hanging there .
ew : it was like it was teasing us , doing a kind of fan dance -- now you see me , now you do n't -- and we had four such teasing appearances , and then on the fifth , it came in and totally wowed us .
scientists : ooh . bang ! oh my god ! whoa !
ew : the full monty .
what really wowed me about that was the way it came in up over the e - jelly and then attacked the enormous thing next to it , which i think it mistook for the predator on the e - jelly .
but even more incredible was the footage shot from the triton submersible .
what was not mentioned in the discovery documentary was that the bait squid that dr. kubodera used , a one - meter long diamondback squid had a light attached to it , a squid jig of the type that longline fishermen use , and i think it was this light that brought the giant in .
now , what you 're seeing is the intensified camera 's view under red light , and that 's all dr. kubodera could see when the giant comes in here .
and then he got so excited , he turned on his flashlight because he wanted to see better , and the giant did n't run away , so he risked turning on the white lights on the submersible , bringing a creature of legend from the misty history into high - resolution video .
it was absolutely breathtaking , and had this animal had its feeding tentacles intact and fully extended , it would have been as tall as a two - story house .
how could something that big live in our ocean and yet remain unfilmed until now ?
we 've only explored about five percent of our ocean .
there are great discoveries yet to be made down there , fantastic creatures representing millions of years of evolution and possibly bioactive compounds that could benefit us in ways that we can n't even yet imagine .
yet we have spent only a tiny fraction of the money on ocean exploration that we 've spent on space exploration .
we need a nasa - like organization for ocean exploration , because we need to be exploring and protecting our life support systems here on earth .
we need  thank you .
exploration is the engine that drives innovation .
innovation drives economic growth .
so let 's all go exploring , but let 's do it in a way that does n't scare the animals away , or , as mike degruy once said , " if you want to get away from it all and see something you 've never seen , or have an excellent chance of seeing something that no one 's ever seen , get in a sub . "
he should have been with us for this adventure .
we miss him .
sergey brin : why google glass ?
 it 's not a demo , more of a philosophical argument : why did sergey brin and his team at google want to build an eye - mounted camera / computer , codenamed glass ? onstage at ted2013 , brin calls for a new way of seeing our relationship with our mobile computers -- not hunched over a screen but meeting the world heads - up .
okay , it 's great to be back at ted .
why do n't i just start by firing away with the video ?
okay , glass , record a video .
this is it . we 're on in two minutes .
okay glass , hang out with the flying club .
google " photos of tiger heads . " hmm .
you ready ? you ready ?
right there . okay , glass , take a picture .
go !
man 6: holy [ beep ] ! that is awesome .
whoa ! look at that snake !
woman 3: okay , glass , record a video !
man 7: after this bridge , first exit .
man 8: okay , a12 , right there !
man 9: google , say " delicious " in thai .
google glass : man 9: mmm ,  .
woman 4: google " jellyfish . "
man 10: it 's beautiful .
sergey brin : oh , sorry , i just got this message from a nigerian prince .
he needs help getting 10 million dollars .
i like to pay attention to these because that 's how we originally funded the company , and it 's gone pretty well .
though in all seriousness , this position that you just saw me in , looking down at my phone , that 's one of the reasons behind this project , project glass .
because we ultimately questioned whether this is the ultimate future of how you want to connect to other people in your life , how you want to connect to information .
should it be by just walking around looking down ?
but that was the vision behind glass , and that 's why we 've created this form factor .
okay . and i do n't want to go through all the things it does and whatnot , but i want to tell you a little bit more about the motivation behind what led to it .
in addition to potentially socially isolating yourself when you 're out and about looking at your phone , it 's kind of , is this what you 're meant to do with your body ?
you 're standing around there and you 're just rubbing this featureless piece of glass .
you 're just kind of moving around .
so when we developed glass , we thought really about , can we make something that frees your hands ?
you saw all of the things people are doing in the video back there .
they were all wearing glass , and that 's how we got that footage .
and also you want something that frees your eyes .
that 's why we put the display up high , out of your line of sight , so it would n't be where you 're looking and it would n't be where you 're making eye contact with people .
and also we wanted to free up the ears , so the sound actually goes through , conducts straight to the bones in your cranium , which is a little bit freaky at first , but you get used to it .
and ironically , if you want to hear it better , you actually just cover your ear , which is kind of surprising , but that 's how it works .
my vision when we started google 15 years ago was that eventually you would n't have to have a search query at all .
you 'd just have information come to you as you needed it .
and this is now , 15 years later , sort of the first form factor that i think can deliver that vision when you 're out and about on the street talking to people and so forth .
this project has lasted now , been just over two years .
we 've learned an amazing amount .
it 's been really important to make it comfortable .
so our first prototypes we built were huge .
it was like cell phones strapped to your head .
it was very heavy , pretty uncomfortable .
we had to keep it secret from our industrial designer until she actually accepted the job , and then she almost ran away screaming .
but we 've come a long way .
and the other really unexpected surprise was the camera .
our original prototypes did n't have cameras at all , but it 's been really magical to be able to capture moments spent with my family , my kids .
i just never would have dug out a camera or a phone or something else to take that moment .
and lastly i 've realized , in experimenting with this device , that i also kind of have a nervous tic .
the cell phone is -- yeah , you have to look down on it and all that , but it 's also kind of a nervous habit .
like if i smoked , i 'd probably just smoke instead .
i would just light up a cigarette . it would look cooler .
you know , i 'd be like -- but in this case , you know , i whip this out and i sit there and look as if i have something very important to do or attend to .
but it really opened my eyes to how much of my life i spent just secluding away , be it email or social posts or whatnot , even though it was n't really -- there 's nothing really that important or that pressing .
and with this , i know i will get certain messages if i really need them , but i do n't have to be checking them all the time .
yeah , i 've really enjoyed actually exploring the world more , doing more of the crazy things like you saw in the video .
thank you all very much .
david pogue : simplicity sells 
 new york times columnist david pogue takes aim at technology 's worst interface - design offenders , and provides encouraging examples of products that get it right . to funny things up , he bursts into song .
hello voicemail , my old friend .
i 've called for tech support again .
i ignored my boss ' warning . i called on a monday morning .
now it 's evening , and my dinner first grew cold -- and then grew mold .
i 'm still on hold . i 'm listening to the sounds of silence .
i do n't think you understand . i think your phone lines are unmanned .
i punched every touch tone i was told , but i still spent 18 hours on hold .
it 's not enough your software crashed my mac and it constantly hangs and bombs -- it erased my roms ! now the mac makes the sounds of silence .
in my dreams i fantasize of wreaking vengeance on you guys .
say your motorcycle crashes .
blood comes gushing from your gashes . with your fading strength , you call 9-1-1 and you pray for a trained md . but you get me .
and you listen to the sounds of silence .
thank you . good evening and welcome to " spot the ted presenter who used to be a broadway accompanist . "
ok . when i was offered the times column six years ago , the deal was like this : you 'll be sent the coolest , hottest , slickest new gadgets .
every week it 'll arrive at your door .
you get to try them out , play with them , evaluate them until the novelty wears out , before you have to send them back .
and you 'll get paid for it . you can think about it , if you want .
i 've always been a technology nut , and i absolutely love it .
the job , though , came with one small downside . and that is : they intended to publish my email address at the end of every column .
and what i 've noticed is -- first of all , you get an incredible amount of email .
if you ever are feeling lonely , get a new york times column , because you will get hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of emails . and the email i 'm getting a lot today is about frustration .
people are feeling like things -- ok , i just had an alarm come up on my screen . lucky you can n't see it .
people are feeling overwhelmed . they 're feeling like it 's too much technology too fast .
it may be good technology , but i feel like there 's not enough of a support structure .
there 's not enough help . there 's not enough thought put into the design of it to make it easy and enjoyable to use .
one time i wrote a column about my efforts to reach dell technical support , and within 12 hours there were 700 messages from readers on the feedback boards on the times website , from users saying , " me too ! " and , " here 's my tale of woe . " i call it " software rage . "
and man , let me tell you , whoever figures out how to make money off of this frustration will -- oh , how did that get up there ? just kidding .
ok , so why is the problem accelerating ? part of the problem is , ironically , because the industry has put so much thought into making things easier to use .
i 'll show you what i mean .
this is what the computer interface used to look like , dos .
over the years it 's gotten easier to use .
this is the original mac operating system .
reagan was president . madonna was still a brunette .
and the entire operating system -- this is the good part -- the entire operating system fit in 211k .
you could n't put the mac os 10 logo in 211k !
so the irony is that as these things became easier to use a less technical , broader audience was coming into contact with this equipment for the first time .
i once had the distinct privilege of sitting in on the apple call center for a day .
the guy had a duplicate headset for me to listen to .
and the calls that -- you know how they say , " your call may be recorded for quality assurance ? "
mm - mmm . your call may be recorded so that they can collect the funniest dumb user stories and pass them around on a cd .
which they do .
and i have a copy .
it 's in your tedgift bag . no , no .
with your voices on it !
some of the stories are just so classic , and yet so understandable .
a woman called apple to complain that her mouse was squeaking -- making a squeaking noise .
and the technician said , " well , ma ' am , what do you mean your mouse is squeaking ? "
she says , " all i can tell you is that it squeaks louder the faster i move it across the screen . "
and the technician 's like , " ma ' am , you 've got the mouse up against the screen ? "
she goes , " well , the message said , ' click here to continue . ' " well , if you like that one , how much time have we got ?
another one , a guy called -- this is absolutely true ! -- his computer had crashed , and he told the technician he could n't restart it no matter how many times he typed 11 .
and the technician said , " what ? why are you typing 11 ? " he said , " the message says , ' error type 11 . ' " so we must admit that some of the blame falls squarely at the feet of the users .
but why is the technical overload crisis , the complexity crisis , accelerating now ? in the hardware world , it 's because we the consumers want everything to be smaller , smaller , smaller .
so the gadgets are getting tinier and tinier but our fingers are essentially staying the same size .
so it gets to be more and more of a challenge .
software is subject to another primal force : the mandate to release more and more versions .
when you buy a piece of software , it 's not like buying a vase or a candy bar , where you own it .
it 's more like joining a club where you pay dues every year .
and every year , they say , " we 've added more features and we 'll sell it to you for $99 . "
i know one guy who 's spent $4,000 just on photoshop over the years .
and software companies make 35 percent of their revenue from just these software upgrades .
i call it the software upgrade paradox -- which is that if you improve a piece of software enough times , you eventually ruin it .
i mean , microsoft word was last just a word processor in , you know , the eisenhower administration .
but what 's the alternative ? microsoft actually did this experiment . they said , " well , wait a minute . everyone complains that we 're adding so many features .
let 's create a word processor that 's just a word processor .
simple , pure , does not do web pages , is not a database . "
and it came out . it was called microsoft write .
and none of you are nodding in acknowledgment because it died .
it tanked . no one ever bought it .
i call this the sport utility principle . people like to surround themselves with unnecessary power , right ?
they do n't need the database and the website , but they 're like , " well , i 'll upgrade , because , i might , you know , i might need that someday . "
so the problem is : as you add more features , where are they going to go ?
where are you going to stick them ? you only have so many design tools .
you can do buttons ; you can do sliders , pop - up menus , sub-menus .
but if you 're not careful about how you choose , you wind up with this .
this is an un - retouched -- this is not a joke -- un - retouched photo of microsoft word , the copy that you have , with all the toolbars open .
you 've obviously never opened all the toolbars , but all you have to type in is this little , teeny window down here .
and we 've arrived at the age of interface matrices , where there are so many features and options , you have to do two dimensions , you know : a vertical and a horizontal . you guys all complained about how microsoft word is always bulleting your lists and underlining your links automatically .
the off switch is in there somewhere .
i 'm telling you , it 's there !
part of the art of designing a simple , good interface , is knowing when to use which one of these features .
here is the log off dialogue box for windows 2000 .
there are only four choices , so why are they in a pop - up menu ?
it 's not like the rest of the screen is so full of other components that you need to collapse the choices .
they could have put them all out in view .
here 's apple 's take on the exact same dialogue box .
thank you -- yes , i designed the dialogue box . no , no , no .
already , we can see that apple and microsoft have a severely divergent approach to software design .
microsoft 's approach to simplicity tends to be : let 's break it down ; let 's just make it more steps .
there are these " wizards " everywhere .
and you know , there 's a new version of windows coming out this fall .
if they continue at this pace , there 's absolutely no telling where they might wind up .
" welcome to the type - a - word wizard . " ok , i 'll bite . let 's click " next " to continue .
from the drop - down menu , choose the first letter you want to type . ok .
so there is a limit that we do n't want to cross . so what is the answer ?
how do you pack in all these features in a simple , intelligent way ?
i believe in consistency with possible , real - world equivalents , trashcan folder when possible , label things mostly .
but i beg of the designers here to break all those rules if they violate the biggest rule of all , which is intelligence . now what do i mean by that ?
i 'm going to give you some examples where intelligence makes something not consistent , but it 's better .
if you are buying something on the web , you 're supposed to put in your address and you 're supposed to choose which country you 're from , ok ?
there are 200 countries in the world . we like to think of the internet as a global village .
i 'm sorry ; it 's not one yet .
it 's mainly , like , the united states , europe and japan .
so why is united states in the " u " s ?
you have to scroll , like , seven screens - full to get to it .
now it would be inconsistent to put united states first , but it would be intelligent . this one 's been touched on before , but why in god 's name do you shut down a windows pc by clicking a button called " start ? "
here 's another pet one of mine : you have a printer .
most of the time , you want to print one copy of your document , in page order , on that printer .
so why in god 's name do you see this every time you print ?
it 's like a 747 shuttle cockpit .
and one of the buttons at the bottom , you 'll notice , is not " print . "
now , i 'm not saying that apple is the only company who has embraced the cult of simplicity .
palm is also , especially in the old days , wonderful about this .
i actually got to speak to palm when they were flying high in the ' 90s , and after the talk , i met one of the employees .
he says , " nice talk . " and i said , " thank you , what do you do here ? "
he said , " i 'm a tap counter . "
i 'm like , " you 're a what ? " he goes , " well , jeff hawkins , the ceo , says , ' if any task on the palm pilot takes more than three taps of the stylus , it 's too long , and it has to be redesigned . ' so i 'm the tap counter . "
i 'm going to show you an example of a company that does not have a tap counter .
this is microsoft word . when you want to create a new blank document in word -- it could happen !
-- you go up to the file menu and you choose " new . " now , what happens when you choose " new ? " do you get a new blank document ?
you do not .
on the opposite side of the monitor , a task bar appears , and somewhere in those links -- by the way , not at the top -- somewhere in those links is a button that makes you a new document .
that is a company not counting taps .
you know , i do n't want to just stand here and make fun of microsoft ...
audience : go on .
david pogue : yes , i do .
the bill gates song !
i 've been a geek forever and i wrote the very first dos .
i put my software and ibm together ; i got profit and they got the loss .
i write the code that makes the whole world run .
i 'm gettin ' royalties from everyone .
sometimes it 's garbage , but the press is snowed .
you buy the box ; i 'll sell the code .
every software company is doing microsoft 's r ; d .
you can n't keep a good idea down these days .
even windows is a hack . we 're kind of based loosely on the mac .
so it 's big , so it 's slow . you 've got nowhere to go . i 'm not doing this for praise .
i write the code that fits the world today .
big mediocrity in every way .
we 've entered planet domination mode .
you 'll have no choice ; you 'll buy my code .
i am bill gates and i write the code .
but actually , i believe there are really two microsofts .
there 's the old one , responsible for windows and office .
they 're dying to throw the whole thing out and start fresh , but they can n't . they 're locked in because so many add - ons and other company stuff locks into the old 1982 chassis .
but there 's also a new microsoft that 's really doing good , simple interface designs .
i liked the media center pc . i liked the microsoft spot watch .
the wireless watch flopped miserably in the market , but it was n't because it was n't simply and beautifully designed .
let 's put it this way : would you pay $10 a month to have a watch that has to be recharged every night , like your cell phone , and stops working when you leave your area code ?
the signs might indicate that the complexity crunch is only going to get worse .
so is there any hope ? the screens are getting smaller .
people are illuminating , putting manuals in the boxes .
the things are coming out at a faster pace .
it 's funny -- when steve jobs came back to apple in 1997 , after 12 years away , it was the macworld expo -- he came to the stage in that black turtleneck and jeans , and he sort of did this . the crowd went wild , but i 'm like , where have i seen this before ? i had just seen the movie " evita " -- -- with madonna , and i 'm like , you know what , i 've got to do one about steve jobs .
it won n't be easy . you 'll think i 'm strange .
when i try to explain why i 'm back after telling the press apple 's future is black .
you won n't believe me .
all that you see is a kid in his teens who started out in a garage with only a buddy named woz .
you try rhyming with garage !
do n't cry for me , cupertino .
the truth is , i never left you .
i know the ropes now , know what the tricks are .
i made a fortune over at pixar .
do n't cry for me , cupertino . i 've still got the drive and vision .
i still wear sandals in any weather . it 's just that these days , they 're gucci leather .
thank you . so steve jobs had always believed in simplicity and elegance and beauty . and the truth is , for years i was a little depressed -- because americans obviously did not value it , because the mac had three percent market share and windows had 95 percent market share .
people did not think it was worth putting a price on it .
so i was a little depressed -- then i heard al gore 's talk , and i realized i did n't know the meaning of depressed .
but it turns out i was wrong , right ? because the ipod came out , and it violated every bit of common wisdom .
other products cost less . other products had more features .
they had voice recorders and fm transmitters .
the other products were backed by microsoft with an open standard , not apple 's propriety standard .
but the ipod won ! this is the one they wanted .
the lesson was : simplicity sells .
and there are signs that the industry is getting the message .
this is a little company that 's done very well with simplicity and elegance .
the sonos thing -- it 's catching on .
i 've got just a couple examples . physically , a really cool , elegant , thinking coming along lately .
when you have a digital camera , how do you get the pictures back to your computer ?
well , you either haul around a usb cable or you buy a card reader and haul that around .
either one , you 're going to lose . what i do is , i take out the memory card , and i fold it in half , revealing usb contacts .
i just stick it in the computer , offload the pictures , put it right back in the camera . i never have to lose anything .
here 's another example . chris , you 're the source of all power .
will you be my power plug ?
oh yeah .
dp : hold that and do n't let go . you might have seen this : this is apple 's new laptop . this is the power cord . it hooks on like this .
and i 'm sure every one of you has done this at some point in your lives , or one of your children . you walk along -- and i 'm about to pull this onto the floor . i do n't care . it 's a loaner .
here we go . whoa ! it 's magnetic . it does n't pull the laptop onto the floor .
in my very last example -- i do a lot of my work using speech recognition software , and you have to be kind of quiet because the software is nervous .
" speech recognition software is really great for doing emails very quickly . period .
like , i get hundreds of them a day . period .
and it 's not just what i dictate that it writes down . period .
i also use this feature called voice macros . period . "
correct " dissuade " . " not just . "
okay , this is not an ideal situation , because it 's getting the echo from the hall and stuff .
but the point is : i can respond to people very quickly by saying a short word and having it write out a much longer thing . so if somebody sends me a fan letter , i 'll say , " thanks for that . "
and conversely , if somebody sends me hate mail -- which happens daily -- i say , " piss off . "
so that 's my dirty little secret . do n't tell anyone .
so the point is , this a really interesting story .
this is version eight of this software , and do you know what they put in version eight ?
no new features . it 's never happened before in software !
the company put no new features . they just said , " we 'll make the software work right . " right .
because for years people had bought this software , tried it out -- 95 percent accuracy was all they got , which means one in 20 words is wrong -- and they put it in their drawer . and the company got sick of that , so they said , " this version , we 're not going to do anything but make sure it 's darned accurate . "
and so that 's what they did . this cult of doing things right is starting to spread .
my final advice for those of you who are consumers of this technology : remember , if it does n't work it 's not necessarily you , ok ?
it could be the design of the thing you 're using .
be aware in life of good design and bad design .
and if you 're among the people who create the stuff , easy is hard .
pre-sweat the details for your audience . count the taps .
remember , the hard part is not deciding what features to add -- it 's deciding what to leave out .
and best of all , your motivation is : simplicity sells .
bravo .
dp : thank you very much .
hear , hear !
daphne koller : what we 're learning from online education 
 daphne koller is enticing top universities to put their most intriguing courses online for free -- not just as a service , but as a way to research how people learn . with coursera , each keystroke , quiz , peer - to - peer discussion and self-graded assignment builds an unprecedented pool of data on how knowledge is processed .
like many of you , i 'm one of the lucky people .
i was born to a family where education was pervasive .
i 'm a third - generation phd , a daughter of two academics .
in my childhood , i played around in my father 's university lab .
so it was taken for granted that i attend some of the best universities , which in turn opened the door to a world of opportunity .
unfortunately , most of the people in the world are not so lucky .
in some parts of the world , for example , south africa , education is just not readily accessible .
in south africa , the educational system was constructed in the days of apartheid for the white minority .
and as a consequence , today there is just not enough spots for the many more people who want and deserve a high quality education .
that scarcity led to a crisis in january of this year at the university of johannesburg .
there were a handful of positions left open from the standard admissions process , and the night before they were supposed to open that for registration , thousands of people lined up outside the gate in a line a mile long , hoping to be first in line to get one of those positions .
when the gates opened , there was a stampede , and 20 people were injured and one woman died .
she was a mother who gave her life trying to get her son a chance at a better life .
but even in parts of the world like the united states where education is available , it might not be within reach .
there has been much discussed in the last few years about the rising cost of health care .
what might not be quite as obvious to people is that during that same period the cost of higher education tuition has been increasing at almost twice the rate , for a total of 559 percent since 1985 .
this makes education unaffordable for many people .
finally , even for those who do manage to get the higher education , the doors of opportunity might not open .
only a little over half of recent college graduates in the united states who get a higher education actually are working in jobs that require that education .
this , of course , is not true for the students who graduate from the top institutions , but for many others , they do not get the value for their time and their effort .
tom friedman , in his recent new york times article , captured , in the way that no one else could , the spirit behind our effort .
he said the big breakthroughs are what happen when what is suddenly possible meets what is desperately necessary .
i 've talked about what 's desperately necessary .
let 's talk about what 's suddenly possible .
what 's suddenly possible was demonstrated by three big stanford classes , each of which had an enrollment of 100,000 people or more .
so to understand this , let 's look at one of those classes , the machine learning class offered by my colleague and cofounder andrew ng .
andrew teaches one of the bigger stanford classes .
it 's a machine learning class , and it has 400 people enrolled every time it 's offered .
when andrew taught the machine learning class to the general public , it had 100,000 people registered .
so to put that number in perspective , for andrew to reach that same size audience by teaching a stanford class , he would have to do that for 250 years .
of course , he 'd get really bored .
so , having seen the impact of this , andrew and i decided that we needed to really try and scale this up , to bring the best quality education to as many people as we could .
so we formed coursera , whose goal is to take the best courses from the best instructors at the best universities and provide it to everyone around the world for free .
we currently have 43 courses on the platform from four universities across a range of disciplines , and let me show you a little bit of an overview of what that looks like .
robert ghrist : welcome to calculus .
ezekiel emanuel : fifty million people are uninsured .
scott page : models help us design more effective institutions and policies .
we get unbelievable segregation .
scott klemmer : so bush imagined that in the future , you 'd wear a camera right in the center of your head .
mitchell duneier : mills wants the student of sociology to develop the quality of mind ...
rg : hanging cable takes on the form of a hyperbolic cosine .
nick parlante : for each pixel in the image , set the red to zero .
paul offit : ... vaccine allowed us to eliminate polio virus .
dan jurafsky : does lufthansa serve breakfast and san jose ? well , that sounds funny .
daphne koller : so this is which coin you pick , and this is the two tosses .
andrew ng : so in large - scale machine learning , we 'd like to come up with computational ...
it turns out , maybe not surprisingly , that students like getting the best content from the best universities for free .
since we opened the website in february , we now have 640,000 students from 190 countries .
we have 1.5 million enrollments , 6 million quizzes in the 15 classes that have launched so far have been submitted , and 14 million videos have been viewed .
but it 's not just about the numbers , it 's also about the people .
whether it 's akash , who comes from a small town in india and would never have access in this case to a stanford - quality course and would never be able to afford it .
or jenny , who is a single mother of two and wants to hone her skills so that she can go back and complete her master 's degree .
or ryan , who can n't go to school , because his immune deficient daughter can n't be risked to have germs come into the house , so he could n't leave the house .
i 'm really glad to say -- recently , we 've been in correspondence with ryan -- that this story had a happy ending .
baby shannon -- you can see her on the left -- is doing much better now , and ryan got a job by taking some of our courses .
so what made these courses so different ?
after all , online course content has been available for a while .
what made it different was that this was real course experience .
it started on a given day , and then the students would watch videos on a weekly basis and do homework assignments .
and these would be real homework assignments for a real grade , with a real deadline .
you can see the deadlines and the usage graph .
these are the spikes showing that procrastination is global phenomenon .
at the end of the course , the students got a certificate .
they could present that certificate to a prospective employer and get a better job , and we know many students who did .
some students took their certificate and presented this to an educational institution at which they were enrolled for actual college credit .
so these students were really getting something meaningful for their investment of time and effort .
let 's talk a little bit about some of the components that go into these courses .
the first component is that when you move away from the constraints of a physical classroom and design content explicitly for an online format , you can break away from , for example , the monolithic one - hour lecture .
you can break up the material , for example , into these short , modular units of eight to 12 minutes , each of which represents a coherent concept .
students can traverse this material in different ways , depending on their background , their skills or their interests .
so , for example , some students might benefit from a little bit of preparatory material that other students might already have .
other students might be interested in a particular enrichment topic that they want to pursue individually .
so this format allows us to break away from the one - size - fits - all model of education , and allows students to follow a much more personalized curriculum .
of course , we all know as educators that students do n't learn by sitting and passively watching videos .
perhaps one of the biggest components of this effort is that we need to have students who practice with the material in order to really understand it .
there 's been a range of studies that demonstrate the importance of this .
this one that appeared in science last year , for example , demonstrates that even simple retrieval practice , where students are just supposed to repeat what they already learned gives considerably improved results on various achievement tests down the line than many other educational interventions .
we 've tried to build in retrieval practice into the platform , as well as other forms of practice in many ways .
for example , even our videos are not just videos .
every few minutes , the video pauses and the students get asked a question .
sp : ... these four things . prospect theory , hyperbolic discounting , status quo bias , base rate bias . they 're all well documented .
so they 're all well documented deviations from rational behavior .
so here the video pauses , and the student types in the answer into the box and submits . obviously they were n't paying attention .
so they get to try again , and this time they got it right .
there 's an optional explanation if they want .
and now the video moves on to the next part of the lecture .
this is a kind of simple question that i as an instructor might ask in class , but when i ask that kind of a question in class , 80 percent of the students are still scribbling the last thing i said , 15 percent are zoned out on facebook , and then there 's the smarty pants in the front row who blurts out the answer before anyone else has had a chance to think about it , and i as the instructor am terribly gratified that somebody actually knew the answer .
and so the lecture moves on before , really , most of the students have even noticed that a question had been asked .
here , every single student has to engage with the material .
and of course these simple retrieval questions are not the end of the story .
one needs to build in much more meaningful practice questions , and one also needs to provide the students with feedback on those questions .
now , how do you grade the work of 100,000 students if you do not have 10,000 tas ?
the answer is , you need to use technology to do it for you .
now , fortunately , technology has come a long way , and we can now grade a range of interesting types of homework .
in addition to multiple choice and the kinds of short answer questions that you saw in the video , we can also grade math , mathematical expressions as well as mathematical derivations .
we can grade models , whether it 's financial models in a business class or physical models in a science or engineering class and we can grade some pretty sophisticated programming assignments .
let me show you one that 's actually pretty simple but fairly visual .
this is from stanford 's computer science 101 class , and the students are supposed to color - correct that blurry red image .
they 're typing their program into the browser , and you can see they did n't get it quite right , lady liberty is still seasick .
and so , the student tries again , and now they got it right , and they 're told that , and they can move on to the next assignment .
this ability to interact actively with the material and be told when you 're right or wrong is really essential to student learning .
now , of course we cannot yet grade the range of work that one needs for all courses .
specifically , what 's lacking is the kind of critical thinking work that is so essential in such disciplines as the humanities , the social sciences , business and others .
so we tried to convince , for example , some of our humanities faculty that multiple choice was not such a bad strategy .
that did n't go over really well .
so we had to come up with a different solution .
and the solution we ended up using is peer grading .
it turns out that previous studies show , like this one by saddler and good , that peer grading is a surprisingly effective strategy for providing reproducible grades .
it was tried only in small classes , but there it showed , for example , that these student - assigned grades on the y - axis are actually very well correlated with the teacher - assigned grade on the x - axis .
what 's even more surprising is that self-grades , where the students grade their own work critically -- so long as you incentivize them properly so they can n't give themselves a perfect score -- are actually even better correlated with the teacher grades .
and so this is an effective strategy that can be used for grading at scale , and is also a useful learning strategy for the students , because they actually learn from the experience .
so we now have the largest peer - grading pipeline ever devised , where tens of thousands of students are grading each other 's work , and quite successfully , i have to say .
but this is not just about students sitting alone in their living room working through problems .
around each one of our courses , a community of students had formed , a global community of people around a shared intellectual endeavor .
what you see here is a self-generated map from students in our princeton sociology 101 course , where they have put themselves on a world map , and you can really see the global reach of this kind of effort .
students collaborated in these courses in a variety of different ways .
first of all , there was a question and answer forum , where students would pose questions , and other students would answer those questions .
and the really amazing thing is , because there were so many students , it means that even if a student posed a question at 3 o'clock in the morning , somewhere around the world , there would be somebody who was awake and working on the same problem .
and so , in many of our courses , the median response time for a question on the question and answer forum was 22 minutes .
which is not a level of service i have ever offered to my stanford students .
and you can see from the student testimonials that students actually find that because of this large online community , they got to interact with each other in many ways that were deeper than they did in the context of the physical classroom .
students also self-assembled , without any kind of intervention from us , into small study groups .
some of these were physical study groups along geographical constraints and met on a weekly basis to work through problem sets .
this is the san francisco study group , but there were ones all over the world .
others were virtual study groups , sometimes along language lines or along cultural lines , and on the bottom left there , you see our multicultural universal study group where people explicitly wanted to connect with people from other cultures .
there are some tremendous opportunities to be had from this kind of framework .
the first is that it has the potential of giving us a completely unprecedented look into understanding human learning .
because the data that we can collect here is unique .
you can collect every click , every homework submission , every forum post from tens of thousands of students .
so you can turn the study of human learning from the hypothesis - driven mode to the data - driven mode , a transformation that , for example , has revolutionized biology .
you can use these data to understand fundamental questions like , what are good learning strategies that are effective versus ones that are not ?
and in the context of particular courses , you can ask questions like , what are some of the misconceptions that are more common and how do we help students fix them ?
so here 's an example of that , also from andrew 's machine learning class .
this is a distribution of wrong answers to one of andrew 's assignments .
the answers happen to be pairs of numbers , so you can draw them on this two - dimensional plot .
each of the little crosses that you see is a different wrong answer .
the big cross at the top left is where 2,000 students gave the exact same wrong answer .
now , if two students in a class of 100 give the same wrong answer , you would never notice .
but when 2,000 students give the same wrong answer , it 's kind of hard to miss .
so andrew and his students went in , looked at some of those assignments , understood the root cause of the misconception , and then they produced a targeted error message that would be provided to every student whose answer fell into that bucket , which means that students who made that same mistake would now get personalized feedback telling them how to fix their misconception much more effectively .
so this personalization is something that one can then build by having the virtue of large numbers .
personalization is perhaps one of the biggest opportunities here as well , because it provides us with the potential of solving a 30 - year - old problem .
educational researcher benjamin bloom , in 1984 , posed what 's called the 2 sigma problem , which he observed by studying three populations .
the first is the population that studied in a lecture - based classroom .
the second is a population of students that studied using a standard lecture - based classroom , but with a mastery - based approach , so the students could n't move on to the next topic before demonstrating mastery of the previous one .
and finally , there was a population of students that were taught in a one - on - one instruction using a tutor .
the mastery - based population was a full standard deviation , or sigma , in achievement scores better than the standard lecture - based class , and the individual tutoring gives you 2 sigma improvement in performance .
to understand what that means , let 's look at the lecture - based classroom , and let 's pick the median performance as a threshold .
so in a lecture - based class , half the students are above that level and half are below .
in the individual tutoring instruction , 98 percent of the students are going to be above that threshold .
imagine if we could teach so that 98 percent of our students would be above average .
hence , the 2 sigma problem .
because we cannot afford , as a society , to provide every student with an individual human tutor .
but maybe we can afford to provide each student with a computer or a smartphone .
so the question is , how can we use technology to push from the left side of the graph , from the blue curve , to the right side with the green curve ?
mastery is easy to achieve using a computer , because a computer does n't get tired of showing you the same video five times .
and it does n't even get tired of grading the same work multiple times , we 've seen that in many of the examples that i 've shown you .
and even personalization is something that we 're starting to see the beginnings of , whether it 's via the personalized trajectory through the curriculum or some of the personalized feedback that we 've shown you .
so the goal here is to try and push , and see how far we can get towards the green curve .
so , if this is so great , are universities now obsolete ?
well , mark twain certainly thought so .
he said that , " college is a place where a professor 's lecture notes go straight to the students ' lecture notes , without passing through the brains of either . "
i beg to differ with mark twain , though .
i think what he was complaining about is not universities but rather the lecture - based format that so many universities spend so much time on .
so let 's go back even further , to plutarch , who said that , " the mind is not a vessel that needs filling , but wood that needs igniting . "
and maybe we should spend less time at universities filling our students ' minds with content by lecturing at them , and more time igniting their creativity , their imagination and their problem - solving skills by actually talking with them .
so how do we do that ?
we do that by doing active learning in the classroom .
so there 's been many studies , including this one , that show that if you use active learning , interacting with your students in the classroom , performance improves on every single metric -- on attendance , on engagement and on learning as measured by a standardized test .
you can see , for example , that the achievement score almost doubles in this particular experiment .
so maybe this is how we should spend our time at universities .
so to summarize , if we could offer a top quality education to everyone around the world for free , what would that do ? three things .
first it would establish education as a fundamental human right , where anyone around the world with the ability and the motivation could get the skills that they need to make a better life for themselves , their families and their communities .
second , it would enable lifelong learning .
it 's a shame that for so many people , learning stops when we finish high school or when we finish college .
by having this amazing content be available , we would be able to learn something new every time we wanted , whether it 's just to expand our minds or it 's to change our lives .
and finally , this would enable a wave of innovation , because amazing talent can be found anywhere .
maybe the next albert einstein or the next steve jobs is living somewhere in a remote village in africa .
and if we could offer that person an education , they would be able to come up with the next big idea and make the world a better place for all of us .
thank you very much .
bren brown : listening to shame 
 shame is an unspoken epidemic , the secret behind many forms of broken behavior . bren brown , whose earlier talk on vulnerability became a viral hit , explores what can happen when people confront their shame head - on . her own humor , humanity and vulnerability shine through every word .
i 'm going to tell you a little bit about my tedxhouston talk .
i woke up the morning after i gave that talk with the worst vulnerability hangover of my life .
and i actually did n't leave my house for about three days .
the first time i left was to meet a friend for lunch .
and when i walked in , she was already at the table .
and i sat down , and she said , " god , you look like hell . "
i said , " thanks . i feel really -- i 'm not functioning . "
and she said , " what 's going on ? "
and i said , " i just told 500 people that i became a researcher to avoid vulnerability .
and that when being vulnerable emerged from my data , as absolutely essential to whole - hearted living , i told these 500 people that i had a breakdown .
i had a slide that said breakdown .
at what point did i think that was a good idea ? "
and she said , " i saw your talk live - streamed .
it was not really you .
it was a little different than what you usually do .
but it was great . "
and i said , " this can n't happen .
youtube , they 're putting this thing on youtube .
and we 're going to be talking about 600 , 700 people . "
and she said , " well , i think it 's too late . "
and i said , " let me ask you something . "
and she said , " yeah . "
and i said , " do you remember when we were in college and really wild and kind of dumb ? "
and she said , " yeah . "
and i said , " remember when we 'd leave a really bad message on our ex-boyfriend 's answering machine ?
then we 'd have to break into his dorm room and then erase the tape ? "
and she goes , " uh ... no . "
so of course , the only thing i could think of to say at that point was , " yeah , me neither .
that ... me neither . "
and i 'm thinking to myself , " brene , what are you doing ? what are you doing ?
why did you bring this up ? have you lost your mind ?
your sisters would be perfect for this . "
so i looked back up and she said , " are you really going to try to break in and steal the video before they put it on youtube ? "
and i said , " i 'm just thinking about it a little bit . "
she said , " you 're like the worst vulnerability role model ever . "
and then i looked at her and i said something that at the time felt a little dramatic , but ended up being more prophetic than dramatic .
i said , " if 500 turns into 1,000 or 2,000 , my life is over . "
i had no contingency plan for four million .
and my life did end when that happened .
and maybe the hardest part about my life ending is that i learned something hard about myself , and that was that , as much as i would frustrated about not being able to get my work out to the world , there was a part of me that was working very hard to engineer staying small , staying right under the radar .
but i want to talk about what i 've learned .
there 's two things that i 've learned in the last year .
the first is vulnerability is not weakness .
and that myth is profoundly dangerous .
let me ask you honestly -- and i 'll give you this warning , i 'm trained as a therapist , so i can out - wait you uncomfortably -- so if you could just raise your hand that would be awesome -- how many of you honestly , when you 're thinking about doing something vulnerable or saying something vulnerable , think , " god , vulnerability 's weakness . this is weakness ? "
how many of you think of vulnerability and weakness synonymously ?
the majority of people .
now let me ask you this question : this past week at ted , how many of you , when you saw vulnerability up here , thought it was pure courage ?
vulnerability is not weakness .
i define vulnerability as emotional risk , exposure , uncertainty .
it fuels our daily lives .
and i 've come to the belief -- this is my 12th year doing this research -- that vulnerability is our most accurate measurement of courage -- to be vulnerable , to let ourselves be seen , to be honest .
one of the weird things that 's happened is , after the ted explosion , i got a lot of offers to speak all over the country -- everyone from schools and parent meetings to fortune 500 companies .
and so many of the calls went like this , " hey , dr. brown . we loved your tedtalk .
we 'd like you to come in and speak .
we 'd appreciate it if you would n't mention vulnerability or shame . "
what would you like for me to talk about ?
there 's three big answers .
this is mostly , to be honest with you , from the business sector : innovation , creativity and change .
so let me go on the record and say , vulnerability is the birthplace of innovation , creativity and change .
to create is to make something that has never existed before .
there 's nothing more vulnerable than that .
adaptability to change is all about vulnerability .
the second thing , in addition to really finally understanding the relationship between vulnerability and courage , the second thing i learned is this : we have to talk about shame .
and i 'm going to be really honest with you .
when i became a " vulnerability researcher " and that became the focus because of the tedtalk -- and i 'm not kidding .
i 'll give you an example .
about three months ago , i was in a sporting goods store buying goggles and shin guards and all the things that parents buy at the sporting goods store .
about from a hundred feet away , this is what i hear : " vulnerability ted ! vulnerability ted ! "
i 'm a fifth generation texan .
our family motto is " lock and load . "
i am not a natural vulnerability researcher .
so i 'm like , just keep walking , she 's on my six .
and then i hear , " vulnerability ted ! "
i turn around , i go , " hi . "
she 's right here and she said , " you 're the shame researcher who had the breakdown . "
at this point parents are , like , pulling their children close .
" look away . "
and i 'm so worn out at this point in my life , i look at her and i actually say , " it was a frickin ' spiritual awakening . "
and she looks back and does this , " i know . "
and she said , " we watched your tedtalk in my book club .
then we read your book and we renamed ourselves ' the breakdown babes . ' " and she said , " our tagline is : ' we 're falling apart and it feels fantastic . ' " you can only imagine what it 's like for me in a faculty meeting .
so when i became vulnerability ted , like an action figure -- like ninja barbie , but i 'm vulnerability ted -- i thought , i 'm going to leave that shame stuff behind , because i spent six years studying shame before i really started writing and talking about vulnerability .
and i thought , thank god , because shame is this horrible topic , no one wants to talk about it .
it 's the best way to shut people down on an airplane .
" what do you do ? " " i study shame . " " oh . "
and i see you .
but in surviving this last year , i was reminded of a cardinal rule -- not a research rule , but a moral imperative from my upbringing -- you 've got to dance with the one who brung ya .
and i did not learn about vulnerability and courage and creativity and innovation from studying vulnerability .
i learned about these things from studying shame .
and so i want to walk you in to shame .
jungian analysts call shame the swampland of the soul .
and we 're going to walk in .
and the purpose is not to walk in and construct a home and live there .
it is to put on some galoshes and walk through and find our way around .
here 's why .
we heard the most compelling call ever to have a conversation in this country , and i think globally , around race , right ?
yes ? we heard that .
yes ?
cannot have that conversation without shame , because you cannot talk about race without talking about privilege .
and when people start talking about privilege , they get paralyzed by shame .
we heard a brilliant simple solution to not killing people in surgery , which is have a checklist .
you can n't fix that problem without addressing shame , because when they teach those folks how to suture , they also teach them how to stitch their self-worth to being all - powerful .
and all - powerful folks do n't need checklists .
and i had to write down the name of this ted fellow so i did n't mess it up here .
myshkin ingawale , i hope i did right by you .
i saw the ted fellows my first day here .
and he got up and he explained how he was driven to create some technology to help test for anemia because people were dying unnecessarily .
and he said , " i saw this need .
so you know what i did ? i made it . "
and everybody just burst into applause , and they were like " yes ! "
and he said , " and it did n't work .
and then i made it 32 more times , and then it worked . "
you know what the big secret about ted is ?
i can n't wait to tell people this .
i guess i 'm doing it right now .
this is like the failure conference .
no , it is .
you know why this place is amazing ?
because very few people here are afraid to fail .
and no one who gets on the stage , so far that i 've seen , has not failed .
i 've failed miserably , many times .
i do n't think the world understands that because of shame .
there 's a great quote that saved me this past year by theodore roosevelt .
a lot of people refer to it as the " man in the arena " quote .
and it goes like this : " it is not the critic who counts .
it is not the man who sits and points out how the doer of deeds could have done things better and how he falls and stumbles .
the credit goes to the man in the arena whose face is marred with dust and blood and sweat .
but when he 's in the arena , at best he wins , and at worst he loses , but when he fails , when he loses , he does so daring greatly . "
and that 's what this conference , to me , is about .
that 's what life is about , about daring greatly , about being in the arena .
when you walk up to that arena and you put your hand on the door , and you think , " i 'm going in and i 'm going to try this , " shame is the gremlin who says , " uh , uh .
you 're not good enough .
you never finished that mba . your wife left you .
i know your dad really was n't in luxembourg , he was in sing sing .
i know those things that happened to you growing up .
i know you do n't think that you 're pretty enough or smart enough or talented enough or powerful enough .
i know your dad never paid attention , even when you made cfo . "
shame is that thing .
and if we can quiet it down and walk in and say , " i 'm going to do this , " we look up and the critic that we see pointing and laughing , 99 percent of the time is who ?
us .
shame drives two big tapes -- " never good enough " and , if you can talk it out of that one , " who do you think you are ? "
the thing to understand about shame is it 's not guilt .
shame is a focus on self , guilt is a focus on behavior .
shame is " i am bad . "
guilt is " i did something bad . "
how many of you , if you did something that was hurtful to me , would be willing to say , " i 'm sorry . i made a mistake ? "
how many of you would be willing to say that ?
guilt : i 'm sorry . i made a mistake .
shame : i 'm sorry . i am a mistake .
there 's a huge difference between shame and guilt .
and here 's what you need to know .
shame is highly , highly correlated with addiction , depression , violence , aggression , bullying , suicide , eating disorders .
and here 's what you even need to know more .
guilt , inversely correlated with those things .
the ability to hold something we 've done or failed to do up against who we want to be is incredibly adaptive .
it 's uncomfortable , but it 's adaptive .
the other thing you need to know about shame is it 's absolutely organized by gender .
if shame washes over me and washes over chris , it 's going to feel the same .
everyone sitting in here knows the warm wash of shame .
we 're pretty sure that the only people who do n't experience shame are people who have no capacity for connection or empathy .
which means , yes , i have a little shame ; no , i 'm a sociopath .
so i would opt for , yes , you have a little shame .
shame feels the same for men and women , but it 's organized by gender .
for women , the best example i can give you is enjoli the commercial : " i can put the wash on the line , pack the lunches , hand out the kisses and be at work at five to nine .
i can bring home the bacon , fry it up in the pan and never let you forget you 're a man . "
for women , shame is do it all , do it perfectly and never let them see you sweat .
i do n't know how much perfume that commercial sold , but i guarantee you , it moved a lot of antidepressants and anti-anxiety meds .
shame , for women , is this web of unobtainable , conflicting , competing expectations about who we 're supposed to be .
and it 's a straight - jacket .
for men , shame is not a bunch of competing , conflicting expectations .
shame is one , do not be perceived as what ?
weak .
i did not interview men for the first four years of my study .
and it was n't until a man looked at me one day after a book signing , said , " i love what you have to say about shame , i 'm curious why you did n't mention men . "
and i said , " i do n't study men . "
and he said , " that 's convenient . "
and i said , " why ? "
and he said , " because you say to reach out , tell our story , be vulnerable .
but you see those books you just signed for my wife and my three daughters ? "
i said , " yeah . "
" they 'd rather me die on top of my white horse than watch me fall down .
when we reach out and be vulnerable we get the shit beat out of us .
and do n't tell me it 's from the guys and the coaches and the dads , because the women in my life are harder on me than anyone else . "
so i started interviewing men and asking questions .
and what i learned is this : you show me a woman who can actually sit with a man in real vulnerability and fear , i 'll show you a woman who 's done incredible work .
you show me a man who can sit with a woman who 's just had it , she can n't do it all anymore , and his first response is not , " i unloaded the dishwasher , " but he really listens -- because that 's all we need -- i 'll show you a guy who 's done a lot of work .
shame is an epidemic in our culture .
and to get out from underneath it , to find our way back to each other , we have to understand how it affects us and how it affects the way we 're parenting , the way we 're working , the way we 're looking at each other .
very quickly , some research by mahalik at boston college .
he asked , what do women need to do to conform to female norms ?
the top answers in this country : nice , thin , modest and use all available resources for appearance .
when he asked about men , what do men in this country need to do to conform with male norms , the answers were : always show emotional control , work is first , pursue status and violence .
if we 're going to find our way back to each other , we have to understand and know empathy , because empathy 's the antidote to shame .
if you put shame in a petri dish , it needs three things to grow exponentially : secrecy , silence and judgment .
if you put the same amount of shame in a petri dish and douse it with empathy , it can n't survive .
the two most powerful words when we 're in struggle : me too .
and so i 'll leave you with this thought .
if we 're going to find our way back to each other , vulnerability is going to be that path .
and i know it 's seductive to stand outside the arena , because i think i did it my whole life , and think to myself , i 'm going to go in there and kick some ass when i 'm bulletproof and when i 'm perfect .
and that is seductive .
but the truth is that never happens .
and even if you got as perfect as you could and as bulletproof as you could possibly muster when you got in there , that 's not what we want to see .
we want you to go in .
we want to be with you and across from you .
and we just want , for ourselves and the people we care about and the people we work with , to dare greatly .
so thank you all very much . i really appreciate it .
maurizio seracini : the secret lives of paintings 
 art history is far from set in stone . engineer maurizio seracini spent 30 years searching for leonardo da vinci 's lost fresco " the battle of anghiari , " and in the process discovered that many paintings have layers of history hidden underneath . should they be part of the viewing experience too ?
in 1975 , i met in florence a professor , carlo pedretti , my former professor of art history , and today a world-renowned scholar of leonardo da vinci .
well , he asked me if i could find some technological way to unfold a five - centuries - old mystery related to a lost masterpiece by leonardo da vinci , the " battle of anghiari , " which is supposed to be located in the hall of the 500 in palazzo vecchio , in florence .
well , in the mid - ' 70s , there were not great opportunities for a bioengineer like me , especially in italy , and so i decided , with some researchers from the united states and the university of florence , to start probing the murals decorated by vasari on the long walls of the hall of the 500 searching for the lost leonardo .
unfortunately , at that time we did not know that that was not exactly where we should be looking , because we had to go much deeper in , and so the research came to a halt , and it was only taken up in 2000 thanks to the interest and the enthusiasm of the guinness family .
well , this time , we focused on trying to reconstruct the way the hall of the 500 was before the remodeling , and the so - called sala grande , which was built in 1494 , and to find out the original doors , windows , and in order to do that , we first created a 3d model , and then , with thermography , we went on to discover hidden windows . these are the original windows of the hall of the sala grande . we also found out about the height of the ceiling , and we managed to reconstruct , therefore , all the layout of this original hall the way it was before there came vasari , and restructured the whole thing , including a staircase that was very important in order to precisely place " the battle of anghiari " on a specific area of one of the two walls .
well , we also learned that vasari , who was commissioned to remodel the hall of the 500 between 1560 and 1574 by the grand duke cosimo i of the medici family , we have at least two instances when he saved masterpieces specifically by placing a brick wall in front of it and leaving a small air gap .
one that we [ see ] here , masaccio , the church of santa maria novella in florence , so we just said , well maybe , visari has done something like that in the case of this great work of art by leonardo , since he was a great admirer of leonardo da vinci .
and so we built some very sophisticated radio antennas just for probing both walls and searching for an air gap .
and we did find many on the right panel of the east wall , an air gap , and that 's where we believe " the battle of anghiari , " or at least the part that we know has been painted , which is called " the fight for the standard , " should be located .
well , from there , unfortunately , in 2004 , the project came to a halt . many political reasons .
so i decided to go back to my alma mater , and , at the university of california , san diego , and i proposed to open up a research center for engineering sciences for cultural heritage .
and in 2007 , we created cisa3 as a research center for cultural heritage , specifically art , architecture and archaeology . so students started to flow in , and we started to build technologies , because that 's basically what we also needed in order to move forward and go and do fieldwork .
we came back in the hall of the 500 in 2011 , and this time , with a great group of students , and my colleague , professor falko kuester , who is now the director at cisa3 , and we came back just since we knew already where to look for to find out if there was still something left .
well , we were confined though , limited , i should rather say , for several reasons that it 's not worth explaining , to endoscopy only , of the many other options we had , and with a 4mm camera attached to it , we were successful in documenting and taking some fragments of what it turns out to be a reddish color , black color , and there is some beige fragments that later on we ran a much more sophisticated exams , xrf , x - ray diffraction , and the results are very positive so far . it seems to indicate that indeed we have found some pigments , and since we know for sure that no other artist has painted on that wall before vasari came in about 60 years later , well , those pigments are therefore firmly related to mural painting and most likely to leonardo .
well , we are searching for the highest and highly praised work of art ever achieved by mankind .
as a matter of fact , this is by far the most important commission that leonardo has ever had , and for doing this great masterpiece , he was named the number one artist influence at the time .
i had also had the privilege since the last 37 years to work on several masterpieces as you can see behind me , but basically to do what ? well , to assess , for example , the state of conservation . see here the face of the madonna of the chair that when just shining a uv light on it you suddenly see another , different lady , aged lady , i should rather say .
there is a lot of varnish still sitting there , several retouches , and some over cleaning . it becomes very visible .
but also , technology has helped to write new pages of our history , or at least to update pages of our histories .
for example , the " lady with the unicorn , " another painting by rafael , well , you see the unicorn .
a lot has been said and written about the unicorn , but if you take an x - ray of the unicorn , it becomes a puppy dog .
and   no problem , but , unfortunately , continuing with the scientific examination of this painting came out that rafael did not paint the unicorn , did not paint the puppy dog , actually left the painting unfinished , so all this writing about the exotic symbol of the unicorn   unfortunately , is not very reliable .
well , also , authenticity . just think for a moment if science really could move in the field of authenticity of works of art . there would be a cultural revolution to say the least , but also , i would say , a market revolution , let me add . take this example : otto marseus , nice painting , which is " still life " at the pitti gallery , and just have an infrared camera peering through , and luckily for art historians , it just was confirmed that there is a signature of otto marseus . it even says when it was made and also the location .
so that was a good result . sometimes , it 's not that good , and so , again , authenticity and science could go together and change the way , not attributions being made , but at least lay the ground for a more objective , or , i should rather say , less subjective attribution , as it is done today .
but i would say the discovery that really caught my imagination , my admiration , is the incredibly vivid drawing under this layer , brown layer , of " the adoration of the magi . " here you see a handmade setting xyz scanner with an infrared camera put on it , and just peering through this brown layer of this masterpiece to reveal what could have been underneath .
well , this happens to be the most important painting we have in italy by leonardo da vinci , and look at the wonderful images of faces that nobody has seen for five centuries . look at these portraits .
they 're magnificent . you see leonardo at work .
you see the geniality of his creation , right directly on the ground layer of the panel , and see this cool thing , finding , i should rather say , an elephant . because of this elephant , over 70 new images came out , never seen for centuries .
this was an epiphany . we came to understand and to prove that the brown coating that we see today was not done by leonardo da vinci , which left us only the other drawing that for five centuries we were not able to see , so thanks only to technology .
well , the tablet . well , we thought , well , if we all have this pleasure , this privilege to see all this , to find all these discoveries , what about for everybody else ?
so we thought of an augmented reality application using a tablet . let me show you just simulating what we could be doing , any of us could be doing , in a museum environment .
so let 's say that we go to a museum with a tablet , okay ?
and we just aim the camera of the tablet to the painting that we are interested to see , like this .
okay ? and i will just click on it , we pause , and now let me turn to you so the moment the image , or , i should say , the camera , has locked in the painting , then the images you just saw up there in the drawing are being loaded . and so , see .
we can , as we said , we can zoom in . then we can scroll .
okay ? let 's go and find the elephant .
so all we need is one finger . just wipe off and we see the elephant .
okay ? and then if we want , we can continue the scroll to find out , for example , on the staircase , the whole iconography is going to be changed . there are a lot of laymen reconstructing from the ruins of an old temple a new temple , and there are a lot of figures showing up . see ?
this is not just a curiosity , because it changes not just the iconography as you see it , but the iconology , the meaning of the painting , and we believe this is a cool way , easy way , that everybody could have access to , to become more the protagonist of your own discovery , and not just be so passive about it , as we are when we walk through endless rooms of museums .
another concept is the digital clinical chart , which sounds very obvious if we were to talk about real patients , but when we talk about works of art , unfortunately , it 's never been tapped as an idea .
well , we believe , again , that this should be the beginning , the very first step , to do real conservation , and allowing us to really explore and to understand everything related to the state of our conservation , the technique , materials , and also if , when , and why we should restore , or , rather , to intervene on the environment surrounding the painting .
well , our vision is to rediscover the spirit of the renaissance , create a new discipline where engineering for cultural heritage is actually a symbol of blending art and science together .
we definitely need a new breed of engineers that will go out and do this kind of work and rediscover for us these values , these cultural values that we badly need , especially today .
and if you want to summarize in one just single word , well , this is what we 're trying to do .
we 're trying to give a future to our past in order to have a future .
as long as we live a life of curiosity and passion , there is a bit of leonardo in all of us . thank you .
eric whitacre : virtual choir live 
 composer and conductor eric whitacre has inspired millions by bringing together " virtual choirs , " singers from many countries spliced together on video . now , for the first time ever , he creates the experience in real time , as 32 singers from around the world skype in to join an onstage choir for an epic performance of whitacre 's " cloudburst , " based on a poem by octavio paz .
in 1991 i had maybe the most profound and transformative experience of my life .
i was in the third year of my seven - year undergraduate degree .
i took a couple victory laps in there .
and i was on a college choir tour up in northern california , and we had stopped for the day after all day on the bus , and we were relaxing next to this beautiful idyllic lake in the mountains .
and there were crickets and birds and frogs making noise , and as we sat there , over the mountains coming in from the north were these steven spielbergian clouds rolling toward us , and as the clouds got about halfway over the valley , so help me god , every single animal in that place stopped making noise at the same time .
this electric hush , as if they could sense what was about to happen .
and then the clouds came over us , and then , boom ! this massive thunderclap , and sheets of rain .
it was just extraordinary , and when i came back home i found a poem by the mexican poet octavio paz , and decided to set it to music , a piece for choir called " cloudburst , " which is the piece that we 'll perform for you in just a moment .
now fast forward to just three years ago .
and we released to youtube this , the virtual choir project , 185 singers from 12 different countries .
you can see my little video there conducting these people , alone in their dorm rooms or in their living rooms at home .
two years ago , on this very stage , we premiered virtual choir 2 , 2,052 singers from 58 different countries , this time performing a piece that i had written called " sleep . "
and then just last spring we released virtual choir 3 , " water night , " another piece that i had written , this time nearly 4,000 singers from 73 different countries .
and when i was speaking to chris about the future of virtual choir and where we might be able to take this , he challenged me to push the technology as far as we possibly could .
could we do this all in real time ?
could we have people singing together in real time ?
and with the help of skype , that is what we are going to attempt today .
now , we 'll perform " cloudburst " for you .
the first half will be performed by the live singers here on stage .
i 'm joined by singers from cal state long beach , cal state fullerton and riverside community college , some of the best amateur choirs in the country , and  -- and in the second half of the piece , the virtual choir will join us , 30 different singers from 30 different countries .
now , we 've pushed the technology as far as it can go , but there 's still less than a second of latency , but in musical terms , that 's a lifetime .
we deal in milliseconds .
so what i 've done is , i 've adapted " cloudburst " so that it embraces the latency and the performers sing into the latency instead of trying to be exactly together .
so with deep humility , and for your approval , we present " cloudburst . "
[ the rain ... ] [ eyes of shadow - water ] [ eyes of well - water ] [ eyes of dream - water . ] [ blue suns , green whirlwinds , ] [ birdbeaks of light pecking open ] [ pomegranate stars . ] [ but tell me , burnt earth , is there no water ? ] [ only blood , only dust , ] [ only naked footsteps on the thorns ? ] [ the rain awakens ... ] [ we must sleep with open eyes , ] [ we must dream with our hands , ] [ we must dream the dreams of a river seeking its course , ] [ of the sun dreaming its worlds . ] [ we must dream aloud , ] [ we must sing till the song puts forth roots , ] [ trunk , branches , birds , stars . ] [ we must find the lost word , ] [ and remember what the blood , ] [ the tides , the earth , and the body say , ] [ and return to the point of departure ... ] [ " cloudburst " octavio paz ] [ translation by lysander kemp , adapted by eric whitacre ] eric whitacre : beth . annabelle , where are you ? jacob .
thank you .
laura trice : remember to say thank you 
 in this deceptively simple 3 - minute talk , dr. laura trice muses on the power of the magic words " thank you " -- to deepen a friendship , to repair a bond , to make sure another person knows what they mean to you . try it .
hi . i 'm here to talk to you about the importance of praise , admiration and thank you , and having it be specific and genuine .
and the way i got interested in this was , i noticed in myself , when i was growing up , and until about a few years ago , that i would want to say thank you to someone , i would want to praise them , i would want to take in their praise of me and i 'd just stop it .
and i asked myself , why ?
i felt shy , i felt embarrassed .
and then my question became , am i the only one who does this ?
so , i decided to investigate .
i 'm fortunate enough to work in the rehab facility , so i get to see people who are facing life and death with addiction .
and sometimes it comes down to something as simple as , their core wound is their father died without ever saying he 's proud of them .
but then , they hear from all the family and friends that the father told everybody else that he was proud of him , but he never told the son .
it 's because he did n't know that his son needed to hear it .
so my question is , why do n't we ask for the things that we need ?
i know a gentleman , married for 25 years , who 's longing to hear his wife say , " thank you for being the breadwinner , so i can stay home with the kids , " but won n't ask .
i know a woman who 's good at this .
she , once a week , meets with her husband and says , " i 'd really like you to thank me for all these things i did in the house and with the kids . "
and he goes , " oh , this is great , this is great . "
and praise really does have to be genuine , but she takes responsibility for that .
and a friend of mine , april , who i 've had since kindergarten , she thanks her children for doing their chores .
and she said , " why would n't i thank it , even though they 're supposed to do it ? "
so , the question is , why was i blocking it ?
why were other people blocking it ?
why can i say , " i 'll take my steak medium rare , i need size six shoes , " but i won n't say , " would you praise me this way ? "
and it 's because i 'm giving you critical data about me .
i 'm telling you where i 'm insecure .
i 'm telling you where i need your help .
and i 'm treating you , my inner circle , like you 're the enemy .
because what can you do with that data ?
you could neglect me .
you could abuse it .
or you could actually meet my need .
and i took my bike into the bike store -- i love this -- same bike , and they 'd do something called " truing " the wheels .
the guy said , " you know , when you true the wheels , it 's going to make the bike so much better . "
i get the same bike back , and they 've taken all the little warps out of those same wheels i 've had for two and a half years , and my bike is like new .
so , i 'm going to challenge all of you .
i want you to true your wheels : be honest about the praise that you need to hear .
what do you need to hear ? go home to your wife -- go ask her , what does she need ?
go home to your husband -- what does he need ?
go home and ask those questions , and then help the people around you .
and it 's simple .
and why should we care about this ?
we talk about world peace .
how can we have world peace with different cultures , different languages ?
i think it starts household by household , under the same roof .
so , let 's make it right in our own backyard .
and i want to thank all of you in the audience for being great husbands , great mothers , friends , daughters , sons .
and maybe somebody 's never said that to you , but you 've done a really , really good job .
and thank you for being here , just showing up and changing the world with your ideas .
thank you .
carter emmart : a 3d atlas of the universe 
 for the last 12 years , carter emmart has been coordinating the efforts of scientists , artists and programmers to build a complete 3d visualization of our known universe . he demos this stunning tour and explains how it 's being shared with facilities around the world .
it 's a great honor today to share with you the digital universe , which was created for humanity to really see where we are in the universe .
and so i think we can roll the video that we have .
[ the himalayas . ] the flat horizon that we 've evolved with has been a metaphor for the infinite : unbounded resources and unlimited capacity for disposal of waste .
it was n't until we really left earth , got above the atmosphere and had seen the horizon bend back on itself , that we could understand our planet as a limited condition .
the digital universe atlas has been built at the american museum of natural history over the past 12 years .
we maintain that , put that together as a project to really chart the universe across all scales .
what we see here are satellites around the earth and the earth in proper registration against the universe , as we see .
nasa supported this work 12 years ago as part of the rebuilding of the hayden planetarium so that we would share this with the world .
the digital universe is the basis of our space show productions that we do -- our main space shows in the dome .
but what you see here is the result of , actually , internships that we hosted with linkoping university in sweden .
i 've had 12 students work on this for their graduate work , and the result has been this software called uniview and a company called sciss in sweden .
this software allows interactive use , so this actual flight path and movie that we see here was actually flown live .
i captured this live from my laptop in a cafe called earth matters on the lower east side of manhattan , where i live , and it was done as a collaborative project with the rubin museum of himalayan art for an exhibit on comparative cosmology .
and so as we move out , we see continuously from our planet all the way out into the realm of galaxies , as we see here , light - travel time , giving you a sense of how far away we are .
as we move out , the light from these distant galaxies have taken so long , we 're essentially backing up into the past .
we back so far up we 're finally seeing a containment around us -- the afterglow of the big bang .
this is the wmap microwave background that we see .
we 'll fly outside it here , just to see this sort of containment .
if we were outside this , it would almost be meaningless , in the sense as before time .
but this our containment of the visible universe .
we know the universe is bigger than that which we can see .
coming back quickly , we see here the radio sphere that we jumped out of in the beginning , but these are positions , the latest positions of exoplanets that we 've mapped , and our sun here , obviously , with our own solar system .
what you 're going to see -- we 're going to have to jump in here pretty quickly between several orders of magnitude to get down to where we see the solar system -- these are the paths of voyager 1 , voyager 2 , pioneer 11 and pioneer 10 , the first four spacecraft to have left the solar system .
coming in closer , picking up earth , orbit of the moon , and we see the earth .
this map can be updated , and we can add in new data .
i know dr. carolyn porco is the camera p . i .
for the cassini mission .
but here we see the complex trajectory of the cassini mission color coded for different mission phases , ingeniously developed so that 45 encounters with the largest moon , titan , which is larger that the planet mercury , diverts the orbit into different parts of mission phase .
this software allows us to come close and look at parts of this .
this software can also be networked between domes .
we have a growing user base of this , and we network domes .
and we can network between domes and classrooms .
we 're actually sharing tours of the universe with the first sub-saharan planetarium in ghana as well as new libraries that have been built in the ghettos in columbia and a high school in cambodia .
and the cambodians have actually controlled the hayden planetarium from their high school .
this is an image from saturday , photographed by the aqua satellite , but through the uniview software .
so you 're seeing the edge of the earth .
this is nepal .
this is , in fact , right here is the valley of lhasa , right here in tibet .
but we can see the haze from fires and so forth in the ganges valley down below in india .
this is nepal and tibet .
and just in closing , i 'd just like to say this beautiful world that we live on -- here we see a bit of the snow that some of you may have had to brave in coming out -- so i 'd like to just say that what the world needs now is a sense of being able to look at ourselves in this much larger condition now and a much larger sense of what home is .
because our home is the universe , and we are the universe , essentially .
we carry that in us .
and to be able to see our context in this larger sense at all scales helps us all , i think , in understanding where we are and who we are in the universe .
thank you .
esther perel : the secret to desire in a long - term relationship 
 in long - term relationships , we often expect our beloved to be both best friend and erotic partner . but as esther perel argues , good & lt ; em & gt ; and & lt ;/ em & gt ; committed sex draws on two conflicting needs : our need for security and our need for surprise . so how do you sustain desire ? with wit and eloquence , perel lets us in on the mystery of erotic intelligence .
so , why does good sex so often fade , even for couples who continue to love each other as much as ever ?
and why does good intimacy not guarantee good sex , contrary to popular belief ?
or , the next question would be , can we want what we already have ?
that 's the million - dollar question , right ?
and why is the forbidden so erotic ?
what is it about transgression that makes desire so potent ?
and why does sex make babies , and babies spell erotic disaster in couples ?
it 's kind of the fatal erotic blow , is n't it ?
and when you love , how does it feel ?
and when you desire , how is it different ?
these are some of the questions that are at the center of my exploration on the nature of erotic desire and its concomitant dilemmas in modern love .
so i travel the globe , and what i 'm noticing is that everywhere where romanticism has entered , there seems to be a crisis of desire .
a crisis of desire , as in owning the wanting -- desire as an expression of our individuality , of our free choice , of our preferences , of our identity -- desire that has become a central concept as part of modern love and individualistic societies .
you know , this is the first time in the history of humankind where we are trying to experience sexuality in the long term , not because we want 14 children , for which we need to have even more because many of them won n't make it , and not because it is exclusively a woman 's marital duty .
this is the first time that we want sex over time about pleasure and connection that is rooted in desire .
so what sustains desire , and why is it so difficult ?
and at the heart of sustaining desire in a committed relationship , i think is the reconciliation of two fundamental human needs .
on the one hand , our need for security , for predictability , for safety , for dependability , for reliability , for permanence -- all these anchoring , grounding experiences of our lives that we call home .
but we also have an equally strong need -- men and women -- for adventure , for novelty , for mystery , for risk , for danger , for the unknown , for the unexpected , surprise -- you get the gist -- for journey , for travel .
so reconciling our need for security and our need for adventure into one relationship , or what we today like to call a passionate marriage , used to be a contradiction in terms .
marriage was an economic institution in which you were given a partnership for life in terms of children and social status and succession and companionship .
but now we want our partner to still give us all these things , but in addition i want you to be my best friend and my trusted confidant and my passionate lover to boot , and we live twice as long .
so we come to one person , and we basically are asking them to give us what once an entire village used to provide : give me belonging , give me identity , give me continuity , but give me transcendence and mystery and awe all in one .
give me comfort , give me edge .
give me novelty , give me familiarity .
give me predictability , give me surprise .
and we think it 's a given , and toys and lingerie are going to save us with that .
so now we get to the existential reality of the story , right ?
because i think , in some way -- and i 'll come back to that -- but the crisis of desire is often a crisis of the imagination .
so why does good sex so often fade ?
what is the relationship between love and desire ?
how do they relate , and how do they conflict ?
because therein lies the mystery of eroticism .
so if there is a verb , for me , that comes with love , it 's " to have . "
and if there is a verb that comes with desire , it is " to want . "
in love , we want to have , we want to know the beloved .
we want to minimize the distance . we want to contract that gap .
we want to neutralize the tensions . we want closeness .
but in desire , we tend to not really want to go back to the places we 've already gone .
forgone conclusion does not keep our interest .
in desire , we want an other , somebody on the other side that we can go visit , that we can go spend some time with , that we can go see what goes on in their red light district .
in desire , we want a bridge to cross .
or in other words , i sometimes say , fire needs air .
desire needs space .
and when it 's said like that , it 's often quite abstract .
but then i took a question with me .
and i 've gone to more than 20 countries in the last few years with " mating in captivity , " and i asked people , when do you find yourself most drawn to your partner ?
not attracted sexually , per se , but most drawn .
and across culture , across religion , and across gender -- except for one -- there are a few answers that just keep coming back .
so the first group is : i am most drawn to my partner when she is away , when we are apart , when we reunite .
basically , when i get back in touch with my ability to imagine myself with my partner , when my imagination comes back in the picture , and when i can root it in absence and in longing , which is a major component of desire .
but then the second group is even more interesting : i am most drawn to my partner when i see him in the studio , when she is onstage , when he is in his element , when she 's doing something she 's passionate about , when i see him at a party and other people are really drawn to him , when i see her hold court .
basically , when i look at my partner radiant and confident , probably the biggest turn - on across the board .
radiant , as in self-sustaining .
i look at this person -- by the way , in desire people rarely talk about it , when we are blended into one , five centimeters from each other . i do n't know in inches how much that is .
but it 's also not when the other person is that far apart that you no longer see them .
it 's when i 'm looking at my partner from a comfortable distance , where this person that is already so familiar , so known , is momentarily once again somewhat mysterious , somewhat elusive .
and in this space between me and the other lies the erotic lan , lies that movement toward the other .
because sometimes , as proust says , mystery is not about traveling to new places , but it 's about looking with new eyes .
and so , when i see my partner on his own or her own , doing something in which they are enveloped , i look at this person and i momentarily get a shift in perception , and i stay open to the mysteries that are living right next to me .
and then , more importantly , in this description about the other or myself -- it 's the same -- what is most interesting is that there is no neediness in desire .
nobody needs anybody .
there is no caretaking in desire .
caretaking is mightily loving . it 's a powerful anti-aphrodisiac .
i have yet to see somebody who is so turned on by somebody who needs them .
wanting them is one thing . needing them is a shutdown , and women have known that forever , because anything that will bring up parenthood will usually decrease the erotic charge .
for good reasons , right ?
and then the third group of answers usually would be when i 'm surprised , when we laugh together , as somebody said to me in the office today , when he 's in his tux , so i said , you know , it 's either the tux or the cowboy boots .
but basically it 's when there is novelty .
but novelty is n't about new positions . it is n't a repertoire of techniques .
novelty is , what parts of you do you bring out ?
what parts of you are just being seen ?
because in some way one could say sex is n't something you do , eh ?
sex is a place you go . it 's a space you enter inside yourself and with another , or others .
so where do you go in sex ?
what parts of you do you connect to ?
what do you seek to express there ?
is it a place for transcendence and spiritual union ?
is it a place for naughtiness and is it a place to be safely aggressive ?
is it a place where you can finally surrender and not have to take responsibility for everything ?
is it a place where you can express your infantile wishes ?
what comes out there ? it 's a language .
it is n't just a behavior .
and it 's the poetic of that language that i 'm interested in , which is why i began to explore this concept of erotic intelligence .
you know , animals have sex .
it 's the pivot , it 's biology , it 's the natural instinct .
we are the only ones who have an erotic life , which means that it 's sexuality transformed by the human imagination .
we are the only ones who can make love for hours , have a blissful time , multiple orgasms , and touch nobody , just because we can imagine it .
we can hint at it . we do n't even have to do it .
we can experience that powerful thing called anticipation , which is a mortar to desire , the ability to imagine it , as if it 's happening , to experience it as if it 's happening , while nothing is happening and everything is happening at the same time .
so when i began to think about eroticism , i began to think about the poetics of sex , and if i look at it as an intelligence , then it 's something that you cultivate .
what are the ingredients ? imagination , playfulness , novelty , curiosity , mystery .
but the central agent is really that piece called the imagination .
but more importantly , for me to begin to understand who are the couples who have an erotic spark , what sustains desire , i had to go back to the original definition of eroticism , the mystical definition , and i went through it through a bifurcation by looking actually at trauma , which is the other side , and i looked at it looking at the community that i had grown up in , which was a community in belgium , all holocaust survivors , and in my community there were two groups : those who did n't die , and those who came back to life .
and those who did n't die lived often very tethered to the ground , could not experience pleasure , could not trust , because when you 're vigilant , worried , anxious , and insecure , you can n't lift your head to go and take off in space and be playful and safe and imaginative .
those who came back to life were those who understood the erotic as an antidote to death .
they knew how to keep themselves alive .
and when i began to listen to the sexlessness of the couples that i work with , i sometimes would hear people say , " i want more sex , " but generally people want better sex , and better is to reconnect with that quality of aliveness , of vibrancy , of renewal , of vitality , of eros , of energy that sex used to afford them , or that they 've hoped it would afford them .
and so i began to ask a different question .
" i shut myself off when ... " began to be the question .
" i turn off my desires when ... " which is not the same question as , " what turns me off is ... " and " you turn me off when ... "
and people began to say , " i turn myself off when i feel dead inside , when i do n't like my body , when i feel old , when i have n't had time for myself , when i have n't had a chance to even check in with you , when i do n't perform well at work , when i feel low self esteem , when i do n't have a sense of self-worth , when i do n't feel like i have a right to want , to take , to receive pleasure . "
and then i began to ask the reverse question .
" i turn myself on when ... " because most of the time , people like to ask the question , " you turn me on , what turns me on , " and i 'm out of the question . you know ?
now , if you are dead inside , the other person can do a lot of things for valentine 's .
it won n't make a dent . there is nobody at the reception desk .
so i turn myself on when , i turn my desires , i wake up when ...
now , in this paradox between love and desire , what seems to be so puzzling is that the very ingredients that nurture love -- mutuality , reciprocity , protection , worry , responsibility for the other -- are sometimes the very ingredients that stifle desire .
because desire comes with a host of feelings that are not always such favorites of love : jealousy , possessiveness , aggression , power , dominance , naughtiness , mischief .
basically most of us will get turned on at night by the very same things that we will demonstrate against during the day .
you know , the erotic mind is not very politically correct .
if everybody was fantasizing on a bed of roses , we would n't be having such interesting talks about this .
but no , in our mind up there are a host of things going on that we do n't always know how to bring to the person that we love , because we think love comes with selflessness and in fact desire comes with a certain amount of selfishness in the best sense of the word : the ability to stay connected to one 's self in the presence of another .
so i want to draw that little image for you , because this need to reconcile these two sets of needs , we are born with that .
our need for connection , our need for separateness , or our need for security and adventure , or our need for togetherness and for autonomy , and if you think about the little kid who sits on your lap and who is cozily nested here and very secure and comfortable , and at some point all of us need to go out into the world to discover and to explore .
that 's the beginning of desire , that exploratory needs curiosity , discovery .
and then at some point they turn around and they look at you , and if you tell them , " hey kiddo , the world 's a great place . go for it .
there 's so much fun out there , " then they can turn away and they can experience connection and separateness at the same time .
they can go off in their imagination , off in their body , off in their playfulness , all the while knowing that there 's somebody when they come back .
but if on this side there is somebody who says , " i 'm worried . i 'm anxious . i 'm depressed .
my partner has n't taken care of me in so long .
what 's so good out there ? do n't we have everything you need together , you and i ? "
then there are a few little reactions that all of us can pretty much recognize .
some of us will come back , came back a long time ago , and that little child who comes back is the child who will forgo a part of himself in order not to lose the other .
i will lose my freedom in order not to lose connection .
and i will learn to love in a certain way that will become burdened with extra worry and extra responsibility and extra protection , and i won n't know how to leave you in order to go play , in order to go experience pleasure , in order to discover , to enter inside myself .
translate this into adult language .
it starts very young . it continues into our sex lives up to the end .
child number two comes back but looks like that over their shoulder all the time .
" are you going to be there ?
are you going to curse me ? are you going to scold me ?
are you going to be angry with me ? "
and they may be gone , but they 're never really away , and those are often the people that will tell you , in the beginning it was super hot .
because in the beginning , the growing intimacy was n't yet so strong that it actually led to the decrease of desire .
the more connected i became , the more responsible i felt , the less i was able to let go in your presence .
the third child does n't really come back .
so what happens , if you want to sustain desire , it 's that real dialectic piece .
on the one hand you want the security in order to be able to go .
on the other hand if you can n't go , you can n't have pleasure , you can n't culminate , you do n't have an orgasm , you do n't get excited because you spend your time in the body and the head of the other and not in your own .
so in this dilemma about reconciling these two sets of fundamental needs , there are a few things that i 've come to understand erotic couples do .
one , they have a lot of sexual privacy .
they understand that there is an erotic space that belongs to each of them .
they also understand that foreplay is not something you do five minutes before the real thing .
foreplay pretty much starts at the end of the previous orgasm .
they also understand that an erotic space is n't about , you begin to stroke the other .
it 's about you create a space where you leave management inc ., maybe where you leave the agile program , and you actually just enter that place where you stop being the good citizen who is taking care of things and being responsible .
responsibility and desire just butt heads .
they do n't really do well together .
erotic couples also understand that passion waxes and wanes .
it 's pretty much like the moon . it has intermittent eclipses .
but what they know is they know how to resurrect it .
they know how to bring it back , and they know how to bring it back because they have demystified one big myth , which is the myth of spontaneity , which is that it 's just going to fall from heaven while you 're folding the laundry like a deus ex machina , and in fact they understood that whatever is going to just happen in a long - term relationship already has .
committed sex is premeditated sex .
it 's willful . it 's intentional .
it 's focus and presence .
merry valentine 's .
nalini nadkarni : life science in prison 
 nalini nadkarni challenges our perspective on trees and prisons -- she says both can be more dynamic than we think . through a partnership with the state of washington , she brings science classes and conservation programs to inmates , with unexpected results .
trees epitomize stasis .
trees are rooted in the ground in one place for many human generations , but if we shift our perspective from the trunk to the twigs , trees become very dynamic entities , moving and growing .
and i decided to explore this movement by turning trees into artists .
i simply tied the end of a paintbrush onto a twig .
i waited for the wind to come up and held up a canvas , and that produced art .
the piece of art you see on your left is painted by a western red cedar and that on your right by a douglas fir , and what i learned was that different species have different signatures , like a picasso versus a monet .
but i was also interested in the movement of trees and how this art might let me capture that and quantify it , so to measure the distance that a single vine maple tree -- which produced this painting -- moved in a single year , i simply measured and summed each of those lines .
i multiplied them by the number of twigs per branch and the number of branches per tree and then divided that by the number of minutes per year .
and so i was able to calculate how far a single tree moved in a single year .
you might have a guess .
the answer is actually 186,540 miles , or seven times around the globe .
and so simply by shifting our perspective from a single trunk to the many dynamic twigs , we are able to see that trees are not simply static entities , but rather extremely dynamic .
and i began to think about ways that we might consider this lesson of trees , to consider other entities that are also static and stuck , but which cry for change and dynamicism , and one of those entities is our prisons .
prisons , of course , are where people who break our laws are stuck , confined behind bars .
and our prison system itself is stuck .
the united states has over 2.3 million incarcerated men and women .
that number is rising .
of the 100 incarcerated people that are released , 60 will return to prison .
funds for education , for training and for rehabilitation are declining , so this despairing cycle of incarceration continues .
i decided to ask whether the lesson i had learned from trees as artists could be applied to a static institution such as our prisons , and i think the answer is yes .
in the year 2007 , i started a partnership with the washington state department of corrections .
working with four prisons , we began bringing science and scientists , sustainability and conservation projects to four state prisons .
we give science lectures , and the men here are choosing to come to our science lectures instead of watching television or weightlifting .
that , i think , is movement .
we partnered with the nature conservancy for inmates at stafford creek correctional center to grow endangered prairie plants for restoration of relic prairie areas in washington state .
that , i think , is movement .
we worked with the washington state department of fish and wildlife to grow endangered frogs -- the oregon spotted frog -- for later release into protected wetlands .
that , i think , is movement .
and just recently , we 've begun to work with those men who are segregated in what we call supermax facilities .
they 've incurred violent infractions by becoming violent with guards and with other prisoners .
they 're kept in bare cells like this for 23 hours a day .
when they have meetings with their review boards or mental health professionals , they 're placed in immobile booths like this .
for one hour a day they 're brought to these bleak and bland exercise yards .
although we can n't bring trees and prairie plants and frogs into these environments , we are bringing images of nature into these exercise yards , putting them on the walls , so at least they get contact with visual images of nature .
this is mr. lopez , who has been in solitary confinement for 18 months , and he 's providing input on the types of images that he believes would make him and his fellow inmates more serene , more calm , less apt to violence .
and so what we see , i think , is that small , collective movements of change can perhaps move an entity such as our own prison system in a direction of hope .
we know that trees are static entities when we look at their trunks .
but if trees can create art , if they can encircle the globe seven times in one year , if prisoners can grow plants and raise frogs , then perhaps there are other static entities that we hold inside ourselves , like grief , like addictions , like racism , that can also change .
thank you very much .
sleepy man banjo boys : bluegrass virtuosity from ... new jersey ?
 all under the age of 16 , brothers jonny , robbie and tommy mizzone are from new jersey , a us state that 's better known for the rock of bruce springsteen than the bluegrass of earl scruggs . nonetheless , the siblings began performing bluegrass covers , as well as their own compositions , at a young age . here , they play three dazzling songs in three different keys , passing the lead back and forth from fiddle to banjo to guitar .
robbie mizzone : thank you .
tommy mizzone : thank you very much .
we 're so excited to be here . it 's such an honor for us .
like he said , we 're three brothers from new jersey -- you know , the bluegrass capital of the world .
we discovered bluegrass a few years ago , and we fell in love with it . we hope you guys will too .
this next song is an original we wrote called " timelapse , " and it will probably live up to its name .
tm : thank you very much .
rm : i 'm just going to take a second to introduce the band .
on guitar is my 15 - year - old brother tommy .
on banjo is 10 - year - old jonny .
he 's also our brother .
and i 'm robbie , and i 'm 14 , and i play the fiddle .
as you can see , we decided to make it hard on ourselves , and we chose to play three songs in three different keys .
yeah . i 'm also going to explain , a lot of people want to know where we got the name sleepy man banjo boys from .
so it started when jonny was little , and he first started the banjo , he would play on his back with his eyes closed , and we 'd say it looked like he was sleeping .
so you can probably piece the rest together .
tm : we can n't really figure out the reason for this .
it might have been that it weighs about a million pounds .
tm : thank you very much .
rm : thank you .
michael hansmeyer : building unimaginable shapes 
 inspired by cell division , michael hansmeyer writes algorithms that design outrageously fascinating shapes and forms with millions of facets . no person could draft them by hand , but they 're buildable -- and they could revolutionize the way we think of architectural form .
as an architect , i often ask myself , what is the origin of the forms that we design ?
what kind of forms could we design if we would n't work with references anymore ?
if we had no bias , if we had no preconceptions , what kind of forms could we design if we could free ourselves from our experience ?
if we could free ourselves from our education ?
what would these unseen forms look like ?
would they surprise us ? would they intrigue us ?
would they delight us ?
if so , then how can we go about creating something that is truly new ?
i propose we look to nature .
nature has been called the greatest architect of forms .
and i 'm not saying that we should copy nature , i 'm not saying we should mimic biology , instead i propose that we can borrow nature 's processes .
we can abstract them and to create something that is new .
nature 's main process of creation , morphogenesis , is the splitting of one cell into two cells .
and these cells can either be identical , or they can be distinct from each other through asymmetric cell division .
if we abstract this process , and simplify it as much as possible , then we could start with a single sheet of paper , one surface , and we could make a fold and divide the surface into two surfaces .
we 're free to choose where we make the fold .
and by doing so , we can differentiate the surfaces .
through this very simple process , we can create an astounding variety of forms .
now , we can take this form and use the same process to generate three - dimensional structures , but rather than folding things by hand , we 'll bring the structure into the computer , and code it as an algorithm .
and in doing so , we can suddenly fold anything .
we can fold a million times faster , we can fold in hundreds and hundreds of variations .
and as we 're seeking to make something three - dimensional , we start not with a single surface , but with a volume .
a simple volume , the cube .
if we take its surfaces and fold them again and again and again and again , then after 16 iterations , 16 steps , we end up with 400,000 surfaces and a shape that looks , for instance , like this .
and if we change where we make the folds , if we change the folding ratio , then this cube turns into this one .
we can change the folding ratio again to produce this shape , or this shape .
so we exert control over the form by specifying the position of where we 're making the fold , but essentially you 're looking at a folded cube .
and we can play with this .
we can apply different folding ratios to different parts of the form to create local conditions .
we can begin to sculpt the form .
and because we 're doing the folding on the computer , we are completely free of any physical constraints .
so that means that surfaces can intersect themselves , they can become impossibly small .
we can make folds that we otherwise could not make .
surfaces can become porous .
they can stretch . they can tear .
and all of this expounds the scope of forms that we can produce .
but in each case , i did n't design the form .
i designed the process that generated the form .
in general , if we make a small change to the folding ratio , which is what you 're seeing here , then the form changes correspondingly .
but that 's only half of the story -- 99.9 percent of the folding ratios produce not this , but this , the geometric equivalent of noise .
the forms that i showed before were made actually through very long trial and error .
a far more effective way to create forms , i have found , is to use information that is already contained in forms .
a very simple form such as this one actually contains a lot of information that may not be visible to the human eye .
so , for instance , we can plot the length of the edges .
white surfaces have long edges , black ones have short ones .
we can plot the planarity of the surfaces , their curvature , how radial they are -- all information that may not be instantly visible to you , but that we can bring out , that we can articulate , and that we can use to control the folding .
so now i 'm not specifying a single ratio anymore to fold it , but instead i 'm establishing a rule , i 'm establishing a link between a property of a surface and how that surface is folded .
and because i 've designed the process and not the form , i can run the process again and again and again to produce a whole family of forms .
these forms look elaborate , but the process is a very minimal one .
there is a simple input , it 's always a cube that i start with , and it 's a very simple operation -- it 's making a fold , and doing this over and over again .
so let 's bring this process to architecture .
how ? and at what scale ?
i chose to design a column .
columns are architectural archetypes .
they 've been used throughout history to express ideals about beauty , about technology .
a challenge to me was how we could express this new algorithmic order in a column .
i started using four cylinders .
through a lot of experimentation , these cylinders eventually evolved into this .
and these columns , they have information at very many scales .
we can begin to zoom into them .
the closer one gets , the more new features one discovers .
some formations are almost at the threshold of human visibility .
and unlike traditional architecture , it 's a single process that creates both the overall form and the microscopic surface detail .
these forms are undrawable .
an architect who 's drawing them with a pen and a paper would probably take months , or it would take even a year to draw all the sections , all of the elevations , you can only create something like this through an algorithm .
the more interesting question , perhaps , is , are these forms imaginable ?
usually , an architect can somehow envision the end state of what he is designing .
in this case , the process is deterministic .
there 's no randomness involved at all , but it 's not entirely predictable .
there 's too many surfaces , there 's too much detail , one can n't see the end state .
so this leads to a new role for the architect .
one needs a new method to explore all of the possibilities that are out there .
for one thing , one can design many variants of a form , in parallel , and one can cultivate them .
and to go back to the analogy with nature , one can begin to think in terms of populations , one can talk about permutations , about generations , about crossing and breeding to come up with a design .
and the architect is really , he moves into the position of being an orchestrator of all of these processes .
but enough of the theory .
at one point i simply wanted to jump inside this image , so to say , i bought these red and blue 3d glasses , got up very close to the screen , but still that was n't the same as being able to walk around and touch things .
so there was only one possibility -- to bring the column out of the computer .
there 's been a lot of talk now about 3d printing .
for me , or for my purpose at this moment , there 's still too much of an unfavorable tradeoff between scale , on the one hand , and resolution and speed , on the other .
so instead , we decided to take the column , and we decided to build it as a layered model , made out of very many slices , thinly stacked over each other .
what you 're looking at here is an x - ray of the column that you just saw , viewed from the top .
unbeknownst to me at the time , because we had only seen the outside , the surfaces were continuing to fold themselves , to grow on the inside of the column , which was quite a surprising discovery .
from this shape , we calculated a cutting line , and then we gave this cutting line to a laser cutter to produce -- and you 're seeing a segment of it here -- very many thin slices , individually cut , on top of each other .
and this is a photo now , it 's not a rendering , and the column that we ended up with after a lot of work , ended up looking remarkably like the one that we had designed in the computer .
almost all of the details , almost all of the surface intricacies were preserved .
but it was very labor intensive .
there 's a huge disconnect at the moment still between the virtual and the physical .
it took me several months to design the column , but ultimately it takes the computer about 30 seconds to calculate all of the 16 million faces .
the physical model , on the other hand , is 2,700 layers , one millimeter thick , it weighs 700 kilos , it 's made of sheet that can cover this entire auditorium .
and the cutting path that the laser followed goes from here to the airport and back again .
but it is increasingly possible .
machines are getting faster , it 's getting less expensive , and there 's some promising technological developments just on the horizon .
these are images from the gwangju biennale .
and in this case , i used abs plastic to produce the columns , we used the bigger , faster machine , and they have a steel core inside , so they 're structural , they can bear loads for once .
each column is effectively a hybrid of two columns .
you can see a different column in the mirror , if there 's a mirror behind the column that creates a sort of an optical illusion .
so where does this leave us ?
i think this project gives us a glimpse of the unseen objects that await us if we as architects begin to think about designing not the object , but a process to generate objects .
i 've shown one simple process that was inspired by nature ; there 's countless other ones .
in short , we have no constraints .
instead , we have processes in our hands right now that allow us to create structures at all scales that we could n't even have dreamt up .
and , if i may add , at one point we will build them .
thank you .
david hoffman : sputnik mania 
 filmmaker david hoffman shares footage from his feature - length documentary sputnik mania , which shows how the soviet union 's launch of sputnik in 1957 led to both the space race and the arms race -- and jump - started science and math education around the world .
fifty years ago in the old soviet union , a team of engineers was secretly moving a large object through a desolate countryside .
with it , they were hoping to capture the minds of people everywhere by being the first to conquer outer space .
the rocket was huge .
and packed in its nose was a silver ball with two radios inside .
on october 4 , 1957 , they launched their rocket .
one of the russian scientists wrote at the time : " we are about to create a new planet that we will call sputnik .
in the olden days , explorers like vasco da gama and columbus had the good fortune to open up the terrestrial globe .
now we have the good fortune to open up space .
and it is for those in the future to envy us our joy . "
you 're watching snippets from " sputnik , " my fifth documentary feature , which is just about completed .
it tells the story of sputnik , and the story of what happened to america as a result .
for days after the launch , sputnik was a wonderful curiosity .
a man - made moon visible by ordinary citizens , it inspired awe and pride that humans had finally launched an object into space .
but just three days later , on a day they called red monday , the media and the politicians told us , and we believed , that sputnik was proof that our enemy had beaten us in science and technology , and that they could now attack us with hydrogen bombs , using their sputnik rocket as an ibm missile .
all hell broke loose .
sputnik quickly became one of the three great shocks to hit america -- historians say the equal of pearl harbor or 9/11 .
it provoked the missile gap .
it exploded an arms race .
it began the space race .
within a year , congress funded huge weapons increases , and we went from 1,200 nuclear weapons to 20,000 .
and the reactions to sputnik went far beyond weapons increases .
for example , some here will remember this day , june 1958 , the national civil defense drill , where tens of millions of people in 78 cities went underground .
or the gallup poll that showed that seven in 10 americans believed that a nuclear war would happen , and that at least 50 percent of our population was going to be killed .
but sputnik provoked wonderful changes as well .
for example , some in this room went to school on scholarship because of sputnik .
support for engineering , math and science -- education in general -- boomed .
and vint cerf points out that sputnik led directly to arpa , and the internet , and , of course , nasa .
my feature documentary shows how a free society can be stampeded by those who know how to use media .
but it also shows how we can turn what appears at first to be a bad situation , into something that was overall very good for america .
" sputnik " will soon be released .
in closing , i would like to take a moment to thank one of my investors : longtime tedster , jay walker .
and i 'd like to thank you all .
thank you , chris .
ken kamler : medical miracle on everest 
 the second deadliest day in the history of mount everest climbs happened in 1996 -- and ken kamler was the only doctor on the mountain that day . he shares the incredible story of the climbers ' battle to save lives in extreme conditions , and uses brain imaging technology to map the medical miracle of one man who survived roughly 36 hours buried in the snow .
ok . we 've heard a lot of people speak at this conference about the power of the human mind .
and what i 'd like to do today is give you a vivid example of how that power can be unleashed when someone is in a survival situation , how the will to survive can bring that out in people .
this is an incident which occurred on mount everest ; it was the worst disaster in the history of everest .
and when it occurred , i was the only doctor on the mountain .
so i 'll take you through that and we 'll see what it 's like when someone really summons the will to survive .
ok , this is mount everest .
it 's 29,035 feet high .
i 've been there six times : four times i did work with national geographic , making tectonic plate measurements ; twice , i went with nasa doing remote sensing devices .
it was on my fourth trip to everest that a comet passed over the mountain . hyakutake .
and the sherpas told us then that was a very bad omen , and we should have listened to them .
everest is an extreme environment .
there 's only one - third as much oxygen at the summit as there is at sea level .
near the summit , temperatures can be 40 degrees below zero .
you can have winds 20 to 40 miles an hour .
it 's actually a wind - chill factor which is lower than a summer day on mars .
i remember one time being up near the summit , i reached into my down jacket for a drink from my water bottle , inside my down jacket , only to discover that the water was already frozen solid .
that gives you an idea of just how severe things are near the summit .
ok , this is the route up everest .
it starts at base camp , at 17,500 feet .
camp one , 2,000 feet higher .
camp two , another 2,000 feet higher up , what 's called the western cwm .
campthree is at the base of lhotse , which is the fourth highest mountain in the world , but it 's dwarfed by everest .
and then camp four is the highest camp ; that 's 3,000 feet short of the summit .
this is a view of base camp .
this is pitched on a glacier at 17,500 feet .
it 's the highest point you can bring your yaks before you have to unload .
and this is what they unloaded for me : i had four yak loads of medical supplies , which are dumped in a tent , and here i am trying to arrange things .
this was our expedition .
it was a national geographic expedition , but it was organized by the explorers club .
there were three other expeditions on the mountain , an american team , a new zealand team and an imax team .
and , after actually two months of preparation , we built our camps all the way up the mountain .
this is a view looking up the icefall , the first 2,000 feet of the climb up from base camp .
and here 's a picture in the icefall ; it 's a waterfall , but it 's frozen , but it moves very slowly , and it actually changes every day .
when you 're in it , you 're like a rat in a maze ; you can n't even see over the top .
this is near the top of the icefall .
you want to climb through at night when the ice is frozen .
that way , it 's less likely to tumble down on you .
these are some climbers reaching the top of the icefall just at sun - up .
this is me crossing a crevasse .
we cross on aluminum ladders with safety ropes attached .
that 's another crevasse .
some of these things are 10 stories deep or more , and one of my climbing friends says that the reason we actually climb at night is because if we ever saw the bottom of what we 're climbing over , we would never do it .
okay . this is camp one .
it 's the first flat spot you can reach after you get up to the top of the icefall .
and from there we climb up to camp two , which is sort of the foreground .
these are climbers moving up the lhotse face , that mountain toward camp three .
they 're on fixed ropes here .
a fall here , if you were n't roped in , would be 5,000 feet down .
this is a view taken from camp three .
you can see the lhotse face is in profile , it 's about a 45 degree angle . it takes two days to climb it , so you put the camp halfway through .
if you notice , the summit of everest is black .
there 's no ice over it .
and that 's because everest is so high , it 's in the jet stream , and winds are constantly scouring the face , so no snow gets to accumulate .
what looks like a cloud behind the summit ridge is actually snow being blown off the summit .
this is on the way up from camp three to camp four , moving in , up through the clouds .
and this is at camp four .
once you get to camp four , you have maybe 24 hours to decide if you 're going to go for the summit or not .
everybody 's on oxygen , your supplies are limited , and you either have to go up or go down , make that decision very quickly .
this is a picture of rob hall .
he was the leader of the new zealand team .
this is a radio he used later to call his wife that i 'll tell you about .
these are some climbers waiting to go to the summit .
they 're up at camp four , and you can see that there 's wind blowing off the summit .
this is not good weather to climb in , so the climbers are just waiting , hoping that the wind 's going to die down .
and , in fact , the wind does die down at night .
it becomes very calm , there 's no wind at all .
this looks like a good chance to go for the summit .
so here are some climbers starting out for the summit on what 's called the triangular face .
it 's the first part of climb .
it 's done in the dark , because it 's actually less steep than what comes next , and you can gain daylight hours if you do this in the dark .
so that 's what happened .
the climbers got on the southeast ridge .
this is the view looking at the southeast ridge .
the summit would be in the foreground .
from here , it 's about 1,500 feet up at a 30 - degree angle to the summit .
but what happened that year was the wind suddenly and unexpectedly picked up .
a storm blew in that no one was anticipating .
you can see here some ferocious winds blowing snow way high off the summit .
and there were climbers on that summit ridge .
this is a picture of me in that area taken a year before , and you can see i 've got an oxygen mask on with a rebreather .
i have an oxygen hose connected here .
you can see on this climber , we have two oxygen tanks in the backpack -- little titanium tanks , very lightweight -- and we 're not carrying much else .
this is all you 've got . you 're very exposed on the summit ridge .
ok , this is a view taken on the summit ridge itself .
this is on the way toward the summit , on that 1,500 - foot bridge .
all the climbers here are climbing unroped , and the reason is because the drop off is so sheer on either side that if you were roped to somebody , you 'd wind up just pulling them off with you .
so each person climbs individually .
and it 's not a straight path at all , it 's very difficult climbing , and there 's always the risk of falling on either side .
if you fall to your left , you 're going to fall 8,000 feet into nepal ; if you fall to your right , you 're going to fall 12,000 feet into tibet .
so it 's probably better to fall into tibet because you 'll live longer .
but , either way , you fall for the rest of your life .
ok . those climbers were up near the summit , along that summit ridge that you see up there , and i was down here in camp three .
my expedition was down in camp three , while these guys were up there in the storm .
the storm was so fierce that we had to lay , fully dressed , fully equipped , laid out on the tent floor to stop the tent from blowing off the mountain .
it was the worst winds i 've ever seen .
and the climbers up on the ridge were that much higher , 2,000 feet higher , and completely exposed to the elements .
we were in radio contact with some of them .
this is a view taken along the summit ridge .
rob hall , we heard by radio , was up here , at this point in the storm with doug hansen .
and we heard that rob was ok , but doug was too weak to come down .
he was exhausted , and rob was staying with him .
we also got some bad news in the storm that beck weathers , another climber , had collapsed in the snow and was dead .
there were still 18 other climbers that we were n't aware of their condition .
they were lost . there was total confusion on the mountain ; all the stories were confusing , most of them were conflicting .
we really had no idea what was going on during that storm .
we were just hunkered down in our tents at camp three .
our two strongest climbers , todd burleson and pete athans , decided to go up to try to rescue who they could even though there was a ferocious storm going .
they tried to radio a message to rob hall , who was a superb climber stuck , sort of , with a weak climber up near the summit .
i expected them to say to rob , " hold on . we 're coming . "
but in fact , what they said was , " leave doug and come down yourself .
there 's no chance of saving him , and just try to save yourself at this point . "
and rob got that message , but his answer was , " we 're both listening . "
todd and pete got up to the summit ridge , up in here , and it was a scene of complete chaos up there .
but they did what they could to stabilize the people .
i gave them radio advice from camp three , and we sent down the climbers that could make it down under their own power .
the ones that could n't we just sort of decided to leave up at camp four .
so the climbers were coming down along this route .
this is taken from camp three , where i was .
and they all came by me so i could take a look at them and see what i could do for them , which is really not much , because camp three is a little notch cut in the ice in the middle of a 45 - degree angle .
you can barely stand outside the tent .
it 's really cold ; it 's 24,000 feet .
the only supplies i had at that altitude were two plastic bags with preloaded syringes of painkiller and steroids .
so , as the climbers came by me , i sort of assessed whether or not they were in condition to continue on further down .
the ones that were n't that lucid or were not that well coordinated , i would give an injection of steroids to try to give them some period of lucidity and coordination where they could then work their way further down the mountain .
it 's so awkward to work up there that sometimes i even gave the injections right through their clothes .
it was just too hard to maneuver any other way up there .
while i was taking care of them , we got more news about rob hall .
there was no way we could get up high enough to rescue him .
he called in to say that he was alone now .
apparently , doug had died higher up on the mountain .
but rob was now too weak to come down himself , and with the fierce winds and up at that altitude , he was just beyond rescue and he knew it .
at that point , he asked to be paged into his wife .
he was carrying a radio .
his wife was home in new zealand , seven months pregnant with their first child , and rob asked to be patched into her . that was done , and rob and his wife had their last conversation .
they picked the name for their baby .
rob then signed off , and that was the last we ever heard of him .
i was faced with treating a lot of critically ill patients at 24,000 feet , which was an impossibility .
so what we did was , we got the victims down to 21,000 feet , where it was easier for me to treat them .
this was my medical kit .
it 's a tackle box filled with medical supplies .
this is what i carried up the mountain .
i had more supplies lower down , which i asked to be brought up to meet me at the lower camp .
and this was scene at the lower camp .
the survivors came in one by one .
some of them were hypothermic , some of them were frostbitten , some were both .
what we did was try to warm them up as best we could , put oxygen on them and try to revive them , which is difficult to do at 21,000 feet , when the tent is freezing .
this is some severe frostbite on the feet , severe frostbite on the nose .
this climber was snow blind .
as i was taking care of these climbers , we got a startling experience .
out of nowhere , beck weathers , who we had already been told was dead , stumbled into the tent , just like a mummy , he walked into the tent .
i expected him to be incoherent , but , in fact , he walked into the tent and said to me , " hi , ken . where should i sit ? "
and then he said , " do you accept my health insurance ? "
he really said that .
so he was completely lucid , but he was very severely frostbitten .
you can see his hand is completely white ; his face , his nose , is burned .
first , it turns white , and then when it 's completed necrosis , it turns black , and then it falls off .
it 's the last stage , just like a scar .
so , as i was taking care of beck , he related what had been going on up there .
he said he had gotten lost in the storm , collapsed in the snow , and just laid there , unable to move .
some climbers had come by and looked at him , and he heard them say , " he 's dead . "
but beck was n't dead ; he heard that , but he was completely unable to move .
he was in some sort of catatonic state where he could be aware of his surroundings , but could n't even blink to indicate that he was alive .
so the climbers passed him by , and beck lay there for a day , a night and another day , in the snow .
and then he said to himself , " i do n't want to die .
i have a family to come back to . "
and the thoughts of his family , his kids and his wife , generated enough energy , enough motivation in him , so that he actually got up .
after laying in the snow that long a time , he got up and found his way back to the camp .
and beck told me that story very quietly , but i was absolutely stunned by it .
i could n't imagine anybody laying in the snow that long a time and then getting up .
he apparently reversed an irreversible hypothermia .
and i can only try to speculate on how he did it .
so , what if we had beck hooked up to a spect scan , something that could actually measure brain function ?
just very simply , the three parts of the brain : the frontal lobe , where you focus your attention and concentration ; you have the temporal lobe , where you form images and keep memories ; and the posterior part of your brain , which contains the cerebellum , which controls motion ; and the brain stem , where you have your basic maintenance functions , like heartbeat and respiration .
so let 's take a cut through the brain here , and imagine that beck was hooked up to a spect scan .
this measures dynamic blood flow and therefore energy flow within the brain .
so you have the prefrontal cortex here , lighting up in red .
this is a pretty evenly distributed scan .
you have the middle area , where the temporal lobe might be , in here , and the posterior portion , where the maintenance functions are in the back .
this is a roughly normal scan , showing equal distribution of energy .
now , you go to this one and you see how much more the frontal lobes are lighting up .
this might be what beck would be experiencing when he realizes he 's in danger .
he 's focusing all his attention on getting himself out of trouble .
these parts of the brain are quieting down .
he 's not thinking about his family or anybody else at this point , and he 's working pretty hard .
he 's trying to get his muscles going and get out of this .
ok , but he 's losing ground here .
he 's running out of energy .
it 's too cold ; he can n't keep his metabolic fires going , and , you see , there 's no more red here ; his brain is quieting down .
he 's collapsed in the snow here . everything is quiet , there 's very little red anywhere .
beck is powering down .
he 's dying .
you go on to the next scan , but , in beck 's case , you can see that the middle part of his brain is beginning to light up again .
he 's beginning to think about his family .
he 's beginning to have images that are motivating him to get up .
he 's developing energy in this area through thought .
and this is how he 's going to turn thought back into action .
this part of the brain is called the anterior cingulate gyrus .
it 's an area in which a lot of neuroscientists believe the seat of will exists .
this is where people make decisions , where they develop willpower .
and , you can see , there 's an energy flow going from the mid portion of his brain , where he 's got images of his family , into this area , which is powering his will .
okay . this is getting stronger and stronger to the point where it 's actually going to be a motivating factor .
he 's going to develop enough energy in that area -- after a day , a night and a day -- to actually motivate himself to get up .
and you can see here , he 's starting to get more energy into the frontal lobe .
he 's beginning to focus , he can concentrate now .
he 's thinking about what he 's got to do to save himself .
so this energy has been transmitted up toward the front of his brain , and it 's getting quieter down here , but he 's using this energy to think about what he has to do to get himself going .
and then , that energy is sort of spreading throughout his thought areas .
he 's not thinking about his family now , and he 's getting himself motivated .
this is the posterior part , where his muscles are going to be moving , and he 's going to be pacing himself .
his heart and lungs are going to pick up speed .
so this is what i can speculate might have been going on had we been able to do a spect scan on beck during this survival epic .
so here i am taking care of beck at 21,000 feet , and i felt what i was doing was completely trivial compared to what he had done for himself .
it just shows you what the power of the mind can do .
he was critically ill , there were other critically ill patients ; luckily , we were able to get a helicopter in to rescue these guys .
a helicopter came in at 21,000 feet and carried out the highest helicopter rescue in history .
it was able to land on the ice , take away beck and the other survivors , one by one , and get them off to kathmandu in a clinic before we even got back to base camp .
this is a scene at base camp , at one of the camps where some of the climbers were lost .
and we had a memorial service there a few days later .
these are serphas lighting juniper branches .
they believe juniper smoke is holy .
and the climbers stood around on the high rocks and spoke of the climbers who were lost up near the summit , turning to the mountain , actually , to talk to them directly .
there were five climbers lost here .
this was scott fischer , rob hall , andy harris , doug hansen and yasuko namba .
and one more climber should have died that day , but did n't , and that 's beck weathers .
he was able to survive because he was able to generate that incredible willpower , he was able to use all the power of his mind to save himself .
these are tibetan prayer flags .
these sherpas believe that if you write prayers on these flags , the message will be carried up to the gods , and that year , beck 's message was answered .
thank you .
tyrone hayes + penelope jagessar chaffer : the toxic baby 
 filmmaker penelope jagessar chaffer was curious about the chemicals she was exposed to while pregnant : could they affect her unborn child ? so she asked scientist tyrone hayes to brief her on one he studied closely : atrazine , a herbicide used on corn . onstage together at tedwomen , hayes and chaffer tell their story .
penelope jagessar chaffer : i was going to ask if there 's a doctor in the house .
no , i 'm just joking .
it 's interesting , because it was six years ago when i was pregnant with my first child that i discovered that the most commonly used preservative in baby care products mimics estrogen when it gets into the human body .
now it 's very easy actually to get a chemical compound from products into the human body through the skin .
and these preservatives had been found in breast cancer tumors .
that was the start of my journey to make this film , " toxic baby . "
and it does n't take much time to discover some really astonishing statistics with this issue .
one is that you and i all have between 30 to 50,000 chemicals in our bodies that our grandparents did n't have .
and many of these chemicals are now linked to the skyrocketing incidents of chronic childhood disease that we 're seeing across industrialized nations .
i 'll show you some statistics .
so for example , in the united kingdom , the incidence of childhood leukemia has risen by 20 percent just in a generation .
very similar statistic for childhood cancer in the u.s.
in canada , we 're now looking at one in 10 canadian children with asthma .
that 's a four - fold increase .
again , similar story around the world .
in the united states , probably the most astonishing statistic is a 600 percent increase in autism and autistic spectrum disorders and other learning disabilities .
again , we 're seeing that trend across europe , across north america .
and in europe , there 's certain parts of europe , where we 're seeing a four - fold increase in certain genital birth defects .
interestingly , one of those birth defects has seen a 200 percent increase in the u.s.
so a real skyrocketing of chronic childhood disease that includes other things like obesity and juvenile diabetes , premature puberty .
so it 's interesting for me , when i 'm looking for someone who can really talk to me and talk to an audience about these things , that probably one of the most important people in the world who can discuss toxicity in babies is expert in frogs .
tyrone hayes : it was a surprise to me as well that i would be talking about pesticides , that i 'd be talking about public health , because , in fact , i never thought i would do anything useful .
frogs .
in fact , my involvement in the whole pesticide issue was sort of a surprise as well when i was approached by the largest chemical company in the world and they asked me if i would evaluate how atrazine affected amphibians , or my frogs .
it turns out , atrazine is the largest selling product for the largest chemical company in the world .
it 's the number one contaminant of groundwater , drinking water , rain water .
in 2003 , after my studies , it was banned in the european union , but in that same year , the united states epa re-registered the compound .
we were a bit surprised when we found out that when we exposed frogs to very low levels of atrazine -- 0.1 parts per billion -- that it produced animals that look like this .
these are the dissected gonads of an animal that has two testes , two ovaries , another large testis , more ovaries , which is not normal ...
even for amphibians .
in some cases , another species like the north american leopard frog showed that males exposed to atrazine grew eggs in their testes .
and you can see these large , yolked - up eggs bursting through the surface of this male 's testes .
now my wife tells me , and i 'm sure penelope can as well , that there 's nothing more painful than childbirth -- which that i 'll never experience , i can n't really argue that -- but i would guess that a dozen chicken eggs in my testicle would probably be somewhere in the top five .
in recent studies that we 've published , we 've shown that some of these animals when they 're exposed to atrazine , some of the males grow up and completely become females .
so these are actually two brothers consummating a relationship .
and not only do these genetic males mate with other males , they actually have the capacity to lay eggs even though they 're genetic males .
what we proposed , and what we 've now generated support for , is that what atrazine is doing is wreaking havoc causing a hormone imbalance .
normally the testes should make testosterone , the male hormone .
but what atrazine does is it turns on an enzyme , the machinery if you will , aromatase , that converts testosterone into estrogen .
and as a result , these exposed males lose their testosterone , they 're chemically castrated , and they 're subsequently feminized because now they 're making the female hormone .
now this is what brought me to the human - related issues .
because it turns out that the number one cancer in women , breast cancer , is regulated by estrogen and by this enzyme aromatase .
so when you develop a cancerous cell in your breast , aromatase converts androgens into estrogens , and that estrogen turns on or promotes the growth of that cancer so that it turns into a tumor and spreads .
in fact , this aromatase is so important in breast cancer that the latest treatment for breast cancer is a chemical called letrozole , which blocks aromatase , blocks estrogen , so that if you developed a mutated cell , it does n't grow into a tumor .
now what 's interesting is , of course , that we 're still using 80 million pounds of atrazine , the number one contaminant in drinking water , that does the opposite -- turns on aromatase , increases estrogen and promotes tumors in rats and is associated with tumors , breast cancer , in humans .
what 's interesting is , in fact , the same company that sold us 80 million pounds of atrazine , the breast cancer promoter , now sells us the blocker -- the exact same company .
and so i find it interesting that instead of treating this disease by preventing exposure to the chemicals that promote it , we simply respond by putting more chemicals into the environment .
p so speaking of estrogen , one of the other compounds that tyrone talks about in the film is something called bisphenol a , bpa , which has been in the news recently .
it 's a plasticizer .
it 's a compound that 's found in polycarbonate plastic , which is what baby bottles are made out of .
and what 's interesting about bpa is that it 's such a potent estrogen that it was actually once considered for use as a synthetic estrogen in hormone placement therapy .
and there have been many , many , many studies that have shown that bpa leaches from babies ' bottles into the formula , into the milk , and therefore into the babies .
so we 're dosing our babies , our newborns , our infants , with a synthetic estrogen .
now two weeks ago or so , the european union passed a law banning the use of bpa in babies ' bottles and sippy cups .
and for those of you who are not parents , sippy cups are those little plastic things that your child graduates to after using bottles .
but just two weeks before that , the u.s. senate refused to even debate the banning of bpa in babies ' bottles and sippy cups .
so it really makes you realize the onus on parents to have to look at this and regulate this and police this in their own lives and how astonishing that is .
p with many plastic baby bottles now proven to leak the chemical bisphenol a , it really shows how sometimes it is only a parent 's awareness that stands between chemicals and our children .
the baby bottle scenario proves that we can prevent unnecessary exposure .
however , if we parents are unaware , we are leaving our children to fend for themselves .
th : and what penelope says here is even more true .
for those of you who do n't know , we 're in the middle of the sixth mass extinction .
scientists agree now .
we are losing species from the earth faster than the dinosaurs disappeared , and leading that loss are amphibians .
80 percent of all amphibians are threatened and in come decline .
and i believe , many scientists believe that pesticides are an important part of that decline .
in part , amphibians are good indicators and more sensitive because they do n't have protection from contaminants in the water -- no eggshells , no membranes and no placenta .
in fact , our invention -- by " our " i mean we mammals -- one of our big inventions was the placenta .
but we also start out as aquatic organisms .
but it turns out that this ancient structure that separates us from other animals , the placenta , cannot evolve or adapt fast enough because of the rate that we 're generating new chemicals that it 's never seen before .
the evidence of that is that studies in rats , again with atrazine , show that the hormone imbalance atrazine generates causes abortion .
because maintaining a pregnancy is dependent on hormones .
of those rats that do n't abort , atrazine causes prostate disease in the pups so the sons are born with an old man 's disease .
of those that do n't abort , atrazine causes impaired mammary , or breast , development in the exposed daughters in utero , so that their breast do n't develop properly .
and as a result , when those rats grow up , their pups experience retarded growth and development because they can n't make enough milk to nourish their pups .
so the pup you see on the bottom is affected by atrazine that its grandmother was exposed to .
and given the life of many of these chemicals , generations , years , dozens of years , that means that we right now are affecting the health of our grandchildren 's grandchildren by things that we 're putting into the environment today .
and this is not just philosophical , it 's already known , that chemicals like diethylstilbestrol and estrogen , pcbs , ddt cross the placenta and effectively determine the likelihood of developing breast cancer and obesity and diabetes already when the baby 's in the womb .
in addition to that , after the baby 's born , our other unique invention as mammals is that we nourish our offspring after they 're born .
we already know that chemicals like ddt and des and atrazine can also pass over into milk , again , affecting our babies even after their born .
p so when tyrone tells me that the placenta is an ancient organ , i 'm thinking , how do i demonstrate that ?
how do you show that ?
and it 's interesting when you make a film like this , because you 're stuck trying to visualize science that there 's no visualization for .
and i have to take a little bit of artistic license .
old man : placenta control .
what is it ?
oh what ?
puffuffuff , what ?
perflourooctanoic acid .
blimey .
never heard of it .
p and neither had i actually before i started making this film .
and so when you realize that chemicals can pass the placenta and go into your unborn child , it made me start to think , what would my fetus say to me ?
what would our unborn children say to us when they have an exposure that 's happening everyday , day after day ?
today , i had some octyphenols , some artificial musks and some bisphenol a .
help me .
p it 's a very profound notion to know that we as women are at the vanguard of this .
this is our issue , because we collect these compounds our entire life and then we end up dumping it and dumping them into our unborn children .
we are in effect polluting our children .
and this was something that was really brought home to me a year ago when i found out i was pregnant and the first scan revealed that my baby had a birth defect associated with exposure to estrogenic chemicals in the womb and the second scan revealed no heartbeat .
so my child 's death , my baby 's death , really brought home the resonance of what i was trying to make in this film .
and it 's sometimes a weird place when the communicator becomes part of the story , which is not what you originally intend .
and so when tyrone talks about the fetus being trapped in a contaminated environment , this is my contaminated environment .
this is my toxic baby .
and that 's something that 's just profound and sad , but astonishing because so many of us do n't actually know this .
th : one of this things that 's exciting and appropriate for me to be here at tedwomen is that , well , i think it was summed up best last night at dinner when someone said , " turn to the man at your table and tell them , ' when the revolution starts , we 've got your back . ' " the truth is , women , you 've had our back on this issue for a very long time , starting with rachel carson 's " silent spring " to theo colborn 's " our stolen future " to sandra steingraber 's books " living downstream " and " having faith . "
and perhaps it 's the connection to our next generation -- like my wife and my beautiful daughter here about 13 years ago -- perhaps it 's that connection that makes women activists in this particular area .
but for the men here , i want to say it 's not just women and children that are at risk .
and the frogs that are exposed to atrazine , the testes are full of holes and spaces , because the hormone imbalance , instead of allowing sperm to be generated , such as in the testis here , the testicular tubules end up empty and fertility goes down by as much as 50 percent .
it 's not just my work in amphibians , but similar work has been shown in fish in europe , holes in the testes and absence of sperm in reptiles in a group from south america and in rats , an absence of sperm in the testicular tubules as well .
and of course , we do n't do these experiments in humans , but just by coincidence , my colleague has shown that men who have low sperm count , low semen quality have significantly more atrazine in their urine .
these are just men who live in an agricultural community .
men who actually work in agriculture have much higher levels of atrazine .
and the men who actually apply atrazine have even more atrazine in their urine , up to levels that are 24,000 times what we know to be active are present in the urine of these men .
of course , most of them , 90 percent are mexican , mexican - american .
and it 's not just atrazine they 're exposed to .
they 're exposed to chemicals like chloropicrin , which was originally used as a nerve gas .
and many of these workers have life expectancies of only 50 .
it should n't come to any surprise that the things that happen in wildlife are also a warning to us , just like rachel carson and others have warned .
as evident in this slide from lake nabugabo in uganda , the agricultural runoff from this crop , which goes into these buckets , is the sole source of drinking , cooking and bathing water for this village .
now if i told the men in this village that the frogs have pour immune function and eggs developing in their testes , the connection between environmental health and public health would be clear .
you would not drink water that you knew was having this kind of impact on the wildlife that lived in it .
the problem is , in my village , oakland , in most of our villages , we do n't see that connection .
we turn on the faucet , the water comes out , we assume it 's safe , and we assume that we are masters of our environment , rather than being part of it .
p so it does n't take much to realize that actually this is an environmental issue .
and i kept thinking over and over again this question .
we know so much about global warming and climate change , and yet , we have no concept of what i 've been calling internal environmentalism .
we know what we 're putting out there , we have a sense of those repercussions , but we are so ignorant of this sense of what happens when we put things , or things are put into our bodies .
and it 's my feeling and it 's my urging being here to know that , as we women move forward as the communicators of this , but also as the ones who carry that burden of carrying the children , bearing the children , we hold most of the buying power in the household , is that it 's going to be us moving forward to carry the work of tyrone and other scientists around the world .
and my urging is that when we think about environmental issues that we remember that it 's not just about melting glaciers and ice caps , but it 's also about our children as well .
thank you .
harish manwani : profit 's not always the point 
 you might not expect the chief operating officer of a major global corporation to look too far beyond either the balance sheet or the bottom line . but harish manwani , coo of unilever , makes a passionate argument that doing so to include value , purpose and sustainability in top - level decision - making is not just savvy , it 's the only way to run a 21st century business responsibly .
the entire model of capitalism and the economic model that you and i did business in , and , in fact , continue to do business in , was built around what probably milton friedman put more succinctly .
and adam smith , of course , the father of modern economics actually said many , many years ago , the invisible hand , which is , " if you continue to operate in your own self-interest you will do the best good for society . "
now , capitalism has done a lot of good things and i 've talked about a lot of good things that have happened , but equally , it has not been able to meet up with some of the challenges that we 've seen in society .
the model that at least i was brought up in and a lot of us doing business were brought up in was one which talked about what i call the three g 's of growth : growth that is consistent , quarter on quarter ; growth that is competitive , better than the other person ; and growth that is profitable , so you continue to make more and more shareholder value .
and i 'm afraid this is not going to be good enough and we have to move from this 3g model to a model of what i call the fourth g : the g of growth that is responsible .
and it is this that has to become a very important part of creating value .
of not just creating economic value but creating social value .
and companies that will thrive are those that will actually embrace the fourth g .
and the model of 4g is quite simple : companies cannot afford to be just innocent bystanders in what 's happening around in society .
they have to begin to play their role in terms of serving the communities which actually sustain them .
and we have to move to a model of an and / and model which is how do we make money and do good ?
how do we make sure that we have a great business but we also have a great environment around us ?
and that model is all about doing well and doing good .
but the question is easier said than done .
but how do we actually get that done ?
and i do believe that the answer to that is going to be leadership .
it is going to be to redefine the new business models which understand that the only license to operate is to combine these things .
and for that you need businesses that can actually define their role in society in terms of a much larger purpose than the products and brands that they sell .
and companies that actually define a true north , things that are nonnegotiable whether times are good , bad , ugly -- does n't matter .
there are things that you stand for .
values and purpose are going to be the two drivers of software that are going to create the companies of tomorrow .
and i 'm going to now shift to talking a little bit about my own experiences .
i joined unilever in 1976 as a management trainee in india .
and on my first day of work i walked in and my boss tells me , " do you know why you 're here ? "
i said , " i 'm here to sell a lot of soap . "
and he said , " no , you 're here to change lives . "
you 're here to change lives .
you know , i thought it was rather facetious .
we are a company that sells soap and soup .
what are we doing about changing lives ?
and it 's then i realized that simple acts like selling a bar of soap can save more lives than pharmaceutical companies .
i do n't know how many of you know that five million children do n't reach the age of five because of simple infections that can be prevented by an act of washing their hands with soap .
we run the largest hand - washing program in the world .
we are running a program on hygiene and health that now touches half a billion people .
it 's not about selling soap , there is a larger purpose out there .
and brands indeed can be at the forefront of social change .
and the reason for that is , when two billion people use your brands that 's the amplifier .
small actions can make a big difference .
take another example , i was walking around in one of our villages in india .
now those of you who have done this will realize that this is no walk in the park .
and we had this lady who was one of our small distributors -- beautiful , very , very modest , her home -- and she was out there , dressed nicely , her husband in the back , her mother - in - law behind and her sister - in - law behind her .
the social order was changing because this lady is part of our project shakti that is actually teaching women how to do small business and how to carry the message of nutrition and hygiene .
we have 60,000 such women now in india .
it 's not about selling soap , it 's about making sure that in the process of doing so you can change people 's lives .
small actions , big difference .
our r ; d folks are not only working to give us some fantastic detergents , but they 're working to make sure we use less water .
a product that we 've just launched recently , one rinse product that allows you to save water every time you wash your clothes .
and if we can convert all our users to using this , that 's 500 billion liters of water .
by the way , that 's equivalent to one month of water for a whole huge continent .
so just think about it .
there are small actions that can make a big difference .
and i can go on and on .
our food chain , our brilliant products -- and i 'm sorry i 'm giving you a word from the sponsors -- knorr , hellman 's and all those wonderful products .
we are committed to making sure that all our agricultural raw materials are sourced from sustainable sources , 100 - percent sustainable sources .
we were the first to say we are going to buy all of our palm oil from sustainable sources .
i do n't know how many of you know that palm oil , and not buying it from sustainable sources , can create deforestation that is responsible for 20 percent of the greenhouse gasses in the world .
we were the first to embrace that , and it 's all because we market soap and soup .
and the point i 'm making here is that companies like yours , companies like mine have to define a purpose which embraces responsibility and understands that we have to play our part in the communities in which we operate .
we introduced something called the unilever sustainable living plan , which said , " our purpose is to make sustainable living commonplace , and we are gong to change the lives of one billion people over 2020 . "
now the question here is , where do we go from here ?
and the answer to that is very simple : we 're not going to change the world alone .
there are plenty of you and plenty of us who understand this .
the question is , we need partnerships , we need coalitions and importantly , we need that leadership that will allow us to take this from here and to be the change that we want to see around us .
thank you very much .
abha dawesar : life in the " digital now " 
 one year ago , abha dawesar was living in blacked - out manhattan post-sandy , scrounging for power to connect . as a novelist , she was struck by this metaphor : have our lives now become fixated on the drive to digitally connect , while we miss out on what 's real ?
i was in new york during hurricane sandy , and this little white dog called maui was staying with me .
half the city was dark because of a power cut , and i was living on the dark side .
now , maui was terrified of the dark , so i had to carry him up the stairs , actually down the stairs first , for his walk , and then bring him back up .
i was also hauling gallons of bottles of water up to the seventh floor every day .
and through all of this , i had to hold a torch between my teeth .
the stores nearby were out of flashlights and batteries and bread .
for a shower , i walked 40 blocks to a branch of my gym .
but these were not the major preoccupations of my day .
it was just as critical for me to be the first person in at a cafe nearby with extension cords and chargers to juice my multiple devices .
i started to prospect under the benches of bakeries and the entrances of pastry shops for plug points .
i was n't the only one .
even in the rain , people stood between madison and 5th avenue under their umbrellas charging their cell phones from outlets on the street .
nature had just reminded us that it was stronger than all our technology , and yet here we were , obsessed about being wired .
i think there 's nothing like a crisis to tell you what 's really important and what 's not , and sandy made me realize that our devices and their connectivity matter to us right up there with food and shelter .
the self as we once knew it no longer exists , and i think that an abstract , digital universe has become a part of our identity , and i want to talk to you about what i think that means .
i 'm a novelist , and i 'm interested in the self because the self and fiction have a lot in common .
they 're both stories , interpretations .
you and i can experience things without a story .
we might run up the stairs too quickly and we might get breathless .
but the larger sense that we have of our lives , the slightly more abstract one , is indirect .
our story of our life is based on direct experience , but it 's embellished .
a novel needs scene after scene to build , and the story of our life needs an arc as well .
it needs months and years .
discrete moments from our lives are its chapters .
but the story is not about these chapters .
it 's the whole book .
it 's not only about the heartbreak and the happiness , the victories and the disappointments , but it 's because how because of these , and sometimes , more importantly , in spite of these , we find our place in the world and we change it and we change ourselves .
our story , therefore , needs two dimensions of time : a long arc of time that is our lifespan , and the timeframe of direct experience that is the moment .
now the self that experiences directly can only exist in the moment , but the one that narrates needs several moments , a whole sequence of them , and that 's why our full sense of self needs both immersive experience and the flow of time .
now , the flow of time is embedded in everything , in the erosion of a grain of sand , in the budding of a little bud into a rose .
without it , we would have no music .
our own emotions and state of mind often encode time , regret or nostalgia about the past , hope or dread about the future .
i think that technology has altered that flow of time .
the overall time that we have for our narrative , our lifespan , has been increasing , but the smallest measure , the moment , has shrunk .
it has shrunk because our instruments enable us in part to measure smaller and smaller units of time , and this in turn has given us a more granular understanding of the material world , and this granular understanding has generated reams of data that our brains can no longer comprehend and for which we need more and more complicated computers .
all of this to say that the gap between what we can perceive and what we can measure is only going to widen .
science can do things with and in a picosecond , but you and i are never going to have the inner experience of a millionth of a millionth of a second .
you and i answer only to nature 's rhythm and flow , to the sun , the moon and the seasons , and this is why we need that long arc of time with the past , the present and the future to see things for what they are , to separate signal from noise and the self from sensations .
we need time 's arrow to understand cause and effect , not just in the material world , but in our own intentions and our motivations .
what happens when that arrow goes awry ?
what happens when time warps ?
so many of us today have the sensation that time 's arrow is pointing everywhere and nowhere at once .
this is because time does n't flow in the digital world in the same way that it does in the natural one .
we all know that the internet has shrunk space as well as time .
far away over there is now here .
news from india is a stream on my smartphone app whether i 'm in new york or new delhi .
and that 's not all .
your last job , your dinner reservations from last year , your former friends , lie on a flat plain with today 's friends , because the internet also archives , and it warps the past .
with no distinction left between the past , the present and the future , and the here or there , we are left with this moment everywhere , this moment that i 'll call the digital now .
just how can we prioritize in the landscape of the digital now ?
this digital now is not the present , because it 's always a few seconds ahead , with twitter streams that are already trending and news from other time zones .
this is n't the now of a shooting pain in your foot or the second that you bite into a pastry or the three hours that you lose yourself in a great book .
this now bears very little physical or psychological reference to our own state .
its focus , instead , is to distract us at every turn on the road .
every digital landmark is an invitation to leave what you are doing now to go somewhere else and do something else .
are you reading an interview by an author ?
why not buy his book ? tweet it . share it .
like it . find other books exactly like his .
find other people reading those books .
travel can be liberating , but when it is incessant , we become permanent exiles without repose .
choice is freedom , but not when it 's constantly for its own sake .
not just is the digital now far from the present , but it 's in direct competition with it , and this is because not just am i absent from it , but so are you .
not just are we absent from it , but so is everyone else .
and therein lies its greatest convenience and horror .
i can order foreign language books in the middle of the night , shop for parisian macarons , and leave video messages that get picked up later .
at all times , i can operate at a different rhythm and pace from you , while i sustain the illusion that i 'm tapped into you in real time .
sandy was a reminder of how such an illusion can shatter .
there were those with power and water , and those without .
there are those who went back to their lives , and those who are still displaced after so many months .
for some reason , technology seems to perpetuate the illusion for those who have it that everyone does , and then , like an ironic slap in the face , it makes it true .
for example , it 's said that there are more people in india with access to cell phones than toilets .
now if this rift , which is already so great in many parts of the world , between the lack of infrastructure and the spread of technology , is n't somehow bridged , there will be ruptures between the digital and the real .
for us as individuals who live in the digital now and spend most of our waking moments in it , the challenge is to live in two streams of time that are parallel and almost simultaneous .
how does one live inside distraction ?
we might think that those younger than us , those who are born into this , will adapt more naturally .
possibly , but i remember my childhood .
i remember my grandfather revising the capitals of the world with me .
buda and pest were separated by the danube , and vienna had a spanish riding school .
if i were a child today , i could easily learn this information with apps and hyperlinks , but it really would n't be the same , because much later , i went to vienna , and i went to the spanish riding school , and i could feel my grandfather right beside me .
night after night , he took me up on the terrace , on his shoulders , and pointed out jupiter and saturn and the great bear to me .
and even here , when i look at the great bear , i get back that feeling of being a child , hanging onto his head and trying to balance myself on his shoulder , and i can get back that feeling of being a child again .
what i had with my grandfather was wrapped so often in information and knowledge and fact , but it was about so much more than information or knowledge or fact .
time - warping technology challenges our deepest core , because we are able to archive the past and some of it becomes hard to forget , even as the current moment is increasingly unmemorable .
we want to clutch , and we are left instead clutching at a series of static moments .
they 're like soap bubbles that disappear when we touch them .
by archiving everything , we think that we can store it , but time is not data .
it cannot be stored .
you and i know exactly what it means like to be truly present in a moment .
it might have happened while we were playing an instrument , or looking into the eyes of someone we 've known for a very long time .
at such moments , our selves are complete .
the self that lives in the long narrative arc and the self that experiences the moment become one .
the present encapsulates the past and a promise for the future .
the present joins a flow of time from before and after .
i first experienced these feelings with my grandmother .
i wanted to learn to skip , and she found an old rope and she tucked up her sari and she jumped over it .
i wanted to learn to cook , and she kept me in the kitchen , cutting , cubing and chopping for a whole month .
my grandmother taught me that things happen in the time they take , that time can n't be fought , and because it will pass and it will move , we owe the present moment our full attention .
attention is time .
one of my yoga instructors once said that love is attention , and definitely from my grandmother , love and attention were one and the same thing .
the digital world cannibalizes time , and in doing so , i want to suggest that what it threatens is the completeness of ourselves .
it threatens the flow of love .
but we do n't need to let it .
we can choose otherwise .
we 've seen again and again just how creative technology can be , and in our lives and in our actions , we can choose those solutions and those innovations and those moments that restore the flow of time instead of fragmenting it .
we can slow down and we can tune in to the ebb and flow of time .
we can choose to take time back .
thank you .
susan cain : the power of introverts 
 in a culture where being social and outgoing are prized above all else , it can be difficult , even shameful , to be an introvert . but , as susan cain argues in this passionate talk , introverts bring extraordinary talents and abilities to the world , and should be encouraged and celebrated .
when i was nine years old i went off to summer camp for the first time .
and my mother packed me a suitcase full of books , which to me seemed like a perfectly natural thing to do .
because in my family , reading was the primary group activity .
and this might sound antisocial to you , but for us it was really just a different way of being social .
you have the animal warmth of your family sitting right next to you , but you are also free to go roaming around the adventureland inside your own mind .
and i had this idea that camp was going to be just like this , but better .
i had a vision of 10 girls sitting in a cabin cozily reading books in their matching nightgowns .
camp was more like a keg party without any alcohol .
and on the very first day our counselor gathered us all together and she taught us a cheer that she said we would be doing every day for the rest of the summer to instill camp spirit .
and it went like this : " r - o - w - d - i - e , that 's the way we spell rowdie .
rowdie , rowdie , let 's get rowdie . "
yeah .
so i could n't figure out for the life of me why we were supposed to be so rowdy , or why we had to spell this word incorrectly .
but i recited a cheer . i recited a cheer along with everybody else .
i did my best .
and i just waited for the time that i could go off and read my books .
but the first time that i took my book out of my suitcase , the coolest girl in the bunk came up to me and she asked me , " why are you being so mellow ? " -- mellow , of course , being the exact opposite of r - o - w - d - i - e .
and then the second time i tried it , the counselor came up to me with a concerned expression on her face and she repeated the point about camp spirit and said we should all work very hard to be outgoing .
and so i put my books away , back in their suitcase , and i put them under my bed , and there they stayed for the rest of the summer .
and i felt kind of guilty about this .
i felt as if the books needed me somehow , and they were calling out to me and i was forsaking them .
but i did forsake them and i did n't open that suitcase again until i was back home with my family at the end of the summer .
now , i tell you this story about summer camp .
i could have told you 50 others just like it -- all the times that i got the message that somehow my quiet and introverted style of being was not necessarily the right way to go , that i should be trying to pass as more of an extrovert .
and i always sensed deep down that this was wrong and that introverts were pretty excellent just as they were .
but for years i denied this intuition , and so i became a wall street lawyer , of all things , instead of the writer that i had always longed to be -- partly because i needed to prove to myself that i could be bold and assertive too .
and i was always going off to crowded bars when i really would have preferred to just have a nice dinner with friends .
and i made these self-negating choices so reflexively , that i was n't even aware that i was making them .
now this is what many introverts do , and it 's our loss for sure , but it is also our colleagues ' loss and our communities ' loss .
and at the risk of sounding grandiose , it is the world 's loss .
because when it comes to creativity and to leadership , we need introverts doing what they do best .
a third to a half of the population are introverts -- a third to a half .
so that 's one out of every two or three people you know .
so even if you 're an extrovert yourself , i 'm talking about your coworkers and your spouses and your children and the person sitting next to you right now -- all of them subject to this bias that is pretty deep and real in our society .
we all internalize it from a very early age without even having a language for what we 're doing .
now to see the bias clearly you need to understand what introversion is .
it 's different from being shy .
shyness is about fear of social judgment .
introversion is more about , how do you respond to stimulation , including social stimulation .
so extroverts really crave large amounts of stimulation , whereas introverts feel at their most alive and their most switched - on and their most capable when they 're in quieter , more low - key environments .
not all the time -- these things are n't absolute -- but a lot of the time .
so the key then to maximizing our talents is for us all to put ourselves in the zone of stimulation that is right for us .
but now here 's where the bias comes in .
our most important institutions , our schools and our workplaces , they are designed mostly for extroverts and for extroverts ' need for lots of stimulation .
and also we have this belief system right now that i call the new groupthink , which holds that all creativity and all productivity comes from a very oddly gregarious place .
so if you picture the typical classroom nowadays : when i was going to school , we sat in rows .
we sat in rows of desks like this , and we did most of our work pretty autonomously .
but nowadays , your typical classroom has pods of desks -- four or five or six or seven kids all facing each other .
and kids are working in countless group assignments .
even in subjects like math and creative writing , which you think would depend on solo flights of thought , kids are now expected to act as committee members .
and for the kids who prefer to go off by themselves or just to work alone , those kids are seen as outliers often or , worse , as problem cases .
and the vast majority of teachers reports believing that the ideal student is an extrovert as opposed to an introvert , even though introverts actually get better grades and are more knowledgeable , according to research .
okay , same thing is true in our workplaces .
now , most of us work in open plan offices , without walls , where we are subject to the constant noise and gaze of our coworkers .
and when it comes to leadership , introverts are routinely passed over for leadership positions , even though introverts tend to be very careful , much less likely to take outsize risks -- which is something we might all favor nowadays .
and interesting research by adam grant at the wharton school has found that introverted leaders often deliver better outcomes than extroverts do , because when they are managing proactive employees , they 're much more likely to let those employees run with their ideas , whereas an extrovert can , quite unwittingly , get so excited about things that they 're putting their own stamp on things , and other people 's ideas might not as easily then bubble up to the surface .
now in fact , some of our transformative leaders in history have been introverts .
i 'll give you some examples .
eleanor roosevelt , rosa parks , gandhi -- all these peopled described themselves as quiet and soft - spoken and even shy .
and they all took the spotlight , even though every bone in their bodies was telling them not to .
and this turns out to have a special power all its own , because people could feel that these leaders were at the helm , not because they enjoyed directing others and not out of the pleasure of being looked at ; they were there because they had no choice , because they were driven to do what they thought was right .
now i think at this point it 's important for me to say that i actually love extroverts .
i always like to say some of my best friends are extroverts , including my beloved husband .
and we all fall at different points , of course , along the introvert / extrovert spectrum .
even carl jung , the psychologist who first popularized these terms , said that there 's no such thing as a pure introvert or a pure extrovert .
he said that such a man would be in a lunatic asylum , if he existed at all .
and some people fall smack in the middle of the introvert / extrovert spectrum , and we call these people ambiverts .
and i often think that they have the best of all worlds .
but many of us do recognize ourselves as one type or the other .
and what i 'm saying is that culturally we need a much better balance .
we need more of a yin and yang between these two types .
this is especially important when it comes to creativity and to productivity , because when psychologists look at the lives of the most creative people , what they find are people who are very good at exchanging ideas and advancing ideas , but who also have a serious streak of introversion in them .
and this is because solitude is a crucial ingredient often to creativity .
so darwin , he took long walks alone in the woods and emphatically turned down dinner party invitations .
theodor geisel , better known as dr. seuss , he dreamed up many of his amazing creations in a lonely bell tower office that he had in the back of his house in la jolla , california .
and he was actually afraid to meet the young children who read his books for fear that they were expecting him this kind of jolly santa claus - like figure and would be disappointed with his more reserved persona .
steve wozniak invented the first apple computer sitting alone in his cubical in hewlett - packard where he was working at the time .
and he says that he never would have become such an expert in the first place had he not been too introverted to leave the house when he was growing up .
now of course , this does not mean that we should all stop collaborating -- and case in point , is steve wozniak famously coming together with steve jobs to start apple computer -- but it does mean that solitude matters and that for some people it is the air that they breathe .
and in fact , we have known for centuries about the transcendent power of solitude .
it 's only recently that we 've strangely begun to forget it .
if you look at most of the world 's major religions , you will find seekers -- moses , jesus , buddha , muhammad -- seekers who are going off by themselves alone to the wilderness where they then have profound epiphanies and revelations that they then bring back to the rest of the community .
so no wilderness , no revelations .
this is no surprise though if you look at the insights of contemporary psychology .
it turns out that we can n't even be in a group of people without instinctively mirroring , mimicking their opinions .
even about seemingly personal and visceral things like who you 're attracted to , you will start aping the beliefs of the people around you without even realizing that that 's what you 're doing .
and groups famously follow the opinions of the most dominant or charismatic person in the room , even though there 's zero correlation between being the best talker and having the best ideas -- i mean zero .
so ...
you might be following the person with the best ideas , but you might not .
and do you really want to leave it up to chance ?
much better for everybody to go off by themselves , generate their own ideas freed from the distortions of group dynamics , and then come together as a team to talk them through in a well - managed environment and take it from there .
now if all this is true , then why are we getting it so wrong ?
why are we setting up our schools this way and our workplaces ?
and why are we making these introverts feel so guilty about wanting to just go off by themselves some of the time ?
one answer lies deep in our cultural history .
western societies , and in particular the u.s. , have always favored the man of action over the man of contemplation and " man " of contemplation .
but in america 's early days , we lived in what historians call a culture of character , where we still , at that point , valued people for their inner selves and their moral rectitude .
and if you look at the self-help books from this era , they all had titles with things like " character , the grandest thing in the world . "
and they featured role models like abraham lincoln who was praised for being modest and unassuming .
ralph waldo emerson called him " a man who does not offend by superiority . "
but then we hit the 20th century and we entered a new culture that historians call the culture of personality .
what happened is we had evolved an agricultural economy to a world of big business .
and so suddenly people are moving from small towns to the cities .
and instead of working alongside people they 've known all their lives , now they are having to prove themselves in a crowd of strangers .
so , quite understandably , qualities like magnetism and charisma suddenly come to seem really important .
and sure enough , the self-help books change to meet these new needs and they start to have names like " how to win friends and influence people . "
and they feature as their role models really great salesmen .
so that 's the world we 're living in today .
that 's our cultural inheritance .
now none of this is to say that social skills are unimportant , and i 'm also not calling for the abolishing of teamwork at all .
the same religions who send their sages off to lonely mountain tops also teach us love and trust .
and the problems that we are facing today in fields like science and in economics are so vast and so complex that we are going to need armies of people coming together to solve them working together .
but i am saying that the more freedom that we give introverts to be themselves , the more likely that they are to come up with their own unique solutions to these problems .
so now i 'd like to share with you what 's in my suitcase today .
guess what ?
books .
i have a suitcase full of books .
here 's margaret atwood , " cat 's eye . "
here 's a novel by milan kundera .
and here 's " the guide for the perplexed " by maimonides .
but these are not exactly my books .
i brought these books with me because they were written by my grandfather 's favorite authors .
my grandfather was a rabbi and he was a widower who lived alone in a small apartment in brooklyn that was my favorite place in the world when i was growing up , partly because it was filled with his very gentle , very courtly presence and partly because it was filled with books .
i mean literally every table , every chair in this apartment had yielded its original function to now serve as a surface for swaying stacks of books .
just like the rest of my family , my grandfather 's favorite thing to do in the whole world was to read .
but he also loved his congregation , and you could feel this love in the sermons that he gave every week for the 62 years that he was a rabbi .
he would takes the fruits of each week 's reading and he would weave these intricate tapestries of ancient and humanist thought .
and people would come from all over to hear him speak .
but here 's the thing about my grandfather .
underneath this ceremonial role , he was really modest and really introverted -- so much so that when he delivered these sermons , he had trouble making eye contact with the very same congregation that he had been speaking to for 62 years .
and even away from the podium , when you called him to say hello , he would often end the conversation prematurely for fear that he was taking up too much of your time .
but when he died at the age of 94 , the police had to close down the streets of his neighborhood to accommodate the crowd of people who came out to mourn him .
and so these days i try to learn from my grandfather 's example in my own way .
so i just published a book about introversion , and it took me about seven years to write .
and for me , that seven years was like total bliss , because i was reading , i was writing , i was thinking , i was researching .
it was my version of my grandfather 's hours of the day alone in his library .
but now all of a sudden my job is very different , and my job is to be out here talking about it , talking about introversion .
and that 's a lot harder for me , because as honored as i am to be here with all of you right now , this is not my natural milieu .
so i prepared for moments like these as best i could .
i spent the last year practicing public speaking every chance i could get .
and i call this my " year of speaking dangerously . "
and that actually helped a lot .
but i 'll tell you , what helps even more is my sense , my belief , my hope that when it comes to our attitudes to introversion and to quiet and to solitude , we truly are poised on the brink on dramatic change .
i mean , we are .
and so i am going to leave you now with three calls for action for those who share this vision .
number one : stop the madness for constant group work .
just stop it .
thank you .
and i want to be clear about what i 'm saying , because i deeply believe our offices should be encouraging casual , chatty cafe - style types of interactions -- you know , the kind where people come together and serendipitously have an exchange of ideas .
that is great .
it 's great for introverts and it 's great for extroverts .
but we need much more privacy and much more freedom and much more autonomy at work .
school , same thing .
we need to be teaching kids to work together , for sure , but we also need to be teaching them how to work on their own .
this is especially important for extroverted children too .
they need to work on their own because that is where deep thought comes from in part .
okay , number two : go to the wilderness .
be like buddha , have your own revelations .
i 'm not saying that we all have to now go off and build our own cabins in the woods and never talk to each other again , but i am saying that we could all stand to unplug and get inside our own heads a little more often .
number three : take a good look at what 's inside your own suitcase and why you put it there .
so extroverts , maybe your suitcases are also full of books .
or maybe they 're full of champagne glasses or skydiving equipment .
whatever it is , i hope you take these things out every chance you get and grace us with your energy and your joy .
but introverts , you being you , you probably have the impulse to guard very carefully what 's inside your own suitcase .
and that 's okay .
but occasionally , just occasionally , i hope you will open up your suitcases for other people to see , because the world needs you and it needs the things you carry .
so i wish you the best of all possible journeys and the courage to speak softly .
thank you very much .
thank you . thank you .
yves behar : designing objects that tell stories 
 designer yves behar digs up his creative roots to discuss some of the iconic objects he 's created . then he turns to the witty , surprising , elegant objects he 's working on now -- including the " $100 laptop . " 
being a child , and sort of crawling around the house , i remember these turkish carpets , and there were these scenes , these battle scenes , these love scenes .
i mean , look , this animal is trying to fight back this spear from this soldier .
and my mom took these pictures actually , last week , of our carpets , and i remember this to this day .
there was another object , this sort of towering piece of furniture with creatures and gargoyles and nudity -- pretty scary stuff , when you 're a little kid .
what i remember today from this is that objects tell stories , so storytelling has been a really strong influence in my work .
and then there was another influence .
i was a teenager , and at 15 or 16 , i guess like all teenagers , we want to just do what we love and what we believe in .
and so , i fused together the two things i loved the most , which was skiing and windsurfing .
those are pretty good escapes from the drab weather in switzerland .
so , i created this compilation of the two : i took my skis and i took a board and i put a mast foot in there , and some foot straps , and some metal fins , and here i was , going really fast on frozen lakes .
it was really a death trap . i mean , it was incredible , it worked incredibly well , but it was really dangerous .
and i realized then i had to go to design school .
i mean , look at those graphics there .
so , i went to design school , and it was the early ' 90s when i finished .
and i saw something extraordinary happening in silicon valley , so i wanted to be there , and i saw that the computer was coming into our homes , that it had to change in order to be with us in our homes .
and so i got myself a job and i was working for a consultancy , and we would get in to these meetings , and these managers would come in , and they would say , " well , what we 're going to do here is really important , you know . "
and they would give the projects code names , you know , mostly from " star wars , " actually : things like c3po , yoda , luke .
so , in anticipation , i would be this young designer in the back of the room , and i would raise my hand , and i would ask questions .
i mean , in retrospect , probably stupid questions , but things like , " what 's this caps lock key for ? "
or " what 's this num lock key for ? " you know , that thing ?
" you know , do people really use it ?
do they need it ? do they want it in their homes ? "
what i realized then is , they did n't really want to change the legacy stuff ; they did n't want to change the insides .
they were really looking for us , the designers , to create the skins , to put some pretty stuff outside of the box .
and i did n't want to be a colorist .
it was n't what i wanted to do .
i did n't want to be a stylist in this way .
and then i saw this quote : " advertising is the price companies pay for being unoriginal . "
so , i had to start on my own . so i moved to san francisco , and i started a little company , fuseproject .
and what i wanted to work on is important stuff .
and i wanted to really not just work on the skins , but i wanted to work on the entire human experience .
and so the first projects were sort of humble , but they took technology and maybe made it into things that people would use in a new way , and maybe finding some new functionality .
this is a watch we made for mini cooper , the car company , right when it launched , and it 's the first watch that has a display that switches from horizontal to vertical .
and that allows me to check my timer discretely , here , without bending my elbow .
and other projects , which were really about transformation , about matching the human need .
this is a little piece of furniture for an italian manufacturer , and it ships completely flat , and then it folds into a coffee table and a stool and whatnot .
and something a little bit more experimental : this is a light fixture for swarovski , and what it does is , it changes shape .
so , it goes from a circle , to a round , to a square , to a figure eight .
and just by drawing on a little computer tablet , the entire light fixture adjusts to what shape you want .
and then finally , the leaf lamp for herman miller .
this is a pretty involved process ; it took us about four and a half years .
but i really was looking for creating a unique experience of light , a new experience of light .
so , we had to design both the light and the light bulb .
and that 's a unique opportunity , i would say , in design .
and the new experience i was looking for is giving the choice for the user to go from a warm , sort of glowing kind of mood light , all the way to a bright work light .
so , the light bulb actually does that .
it allows the person to switch , and to mix these two colorations .
and it 's done in a very simple way : one just touches the base of the light , and on one side , you can mix the brightness , and on the other , the coloration of the light .
so , all of these projects have a humanistic sense to them , and i think as designers we need to really think about how we can create a different relationship between our work and the world , whether it 's for business , or , as i 'm going to show , on some civic - type projects .
because i think everybody agrees that as designers we bring value to business , value to the users also , but i think it 's the values that we put into these projects that ultimately create the greater value .
and the values we bring can be about environmental issues , about sustainability , about lower power consumption .
you know , they can be about function and beauty ; they can be about business strategy .
but designers are really the glue that brings these things together .
so jawbone is a project that you 're familiar with , and it has a humanistic technology .
it feels your skin . it rests on your skin , and it knows when it is you 're talking .
and by knowing when it is you 're talking , it gets rid of the other noises that it knows about , which is the environmental noises .
but the other thing that is humanistic about jawbone is that we really decided to take out all the techie stuff , and all the nerdy stuff out of it , and try to make it as beautiful as we can .
i mean , think about it : the care we take in selecting sunglasses , or jewelry , or accessories is really important , so if it is n't beautiful , it really does n't belong on your face .
and this is what we 're pursuing here .
but how we work on jawbone is really unique .
i want to point at something here , on the left .
this is the board , this is one of the things that goes inside that makes this technology work .
but this is the design process : there 's somebody changing the board , putting tracers on the board , changing the location of the ics , as the designers on the other side are doing the work .
so , it 's not about slapping skins , anymore , on a technology .
it 's really about designing from the inside out .
and then , on the other side of the room , the designers are making small adjustments , sketching , drawing by hand , putting it in the computer .
and it 's what i call being design driven .
you know , there is some push and pull , but design is really helping define the whole experience from the inside out .
and then , of course , design is never done .
and this is -- the other new way that is unique in how we work is , because it 's never done , you have to do all this other stuff .
the packaging , and the website , and you need to continue to really touch the user , in many ways .
but how do you retain somebody , when it 's never done ?
and hosain rahman , the ceo of aliph jawbone , you know , really understands that you need a different structure .
so , in a way , the different structure is that we 're partners , it 's a partnership . we can continue to work and dedicate ourselves to this project , and then we also share in the rewards .
and here 's another project , another partnership - type approach .
this is called y water , and it 's this guy from los angeles , thomas arndt , austrian originally , who came to us , and all he wanted to do was to create a healthy drink , or an organic drink for his kids , to replace the high - sugar - content sodas that he 's trying to get them away from .
so , we worked on this bottle , and it 's completely symmetrical in every dimension .
and this allows the bottle to turn into a game .
the bottles connect together , and you can create different shapes , different forms .
thank you .
and then while we were doing this , the shape of the bottle upside down reminded us of a y , and then we thought , well these words , " why " and " why not , " are probably the most important words that kids ask .
so we called it y water . and so this is another place where it all comes together in the same room : the three - dimensional design , the ideas , the branding , it all becomes deeply connected .
and then the other thing about this project is , we bring intellectual property , we bring a marketing approach , we bring all this stuff , but i think , at the end of the day , what we bring is these values , and these values create a soul for the companies we work with .
and it 's especially rewarding when your design work becomes a creative endeavor , when others can be creative and do more with it .
here 's another project , which i think really emulates that .
this is the one laptop per child , the $100 laptop .
this picture is incredible .
in nigeria , people carry their most precious belongings on their heads .
this girl is going to school with a laptop on her head .
i mean , to me , it just means so much .
but when nicholas negroponte -- and he has spoken about this project a lot , he 's the founder of olpc -- came to us about two and a half years ago , there were some clear ideas .
he wanted to bring education and he wanted to bring technology , and those are pillars of his life , but also pillars of the mission of one laptop per child .
but the third pillar that he talked about was design .
and at the time , i was n't really working on computers .
i did n't really want to , from the previous adventure .
but what he said was really significant , is that design was going to be why the kids were going to love this product , how we were going to make it low cost , robust .
and plus , he said he was going to get rid of the caps lock key -- -- and the num lock key , too .
so , i was convinced . we designed it to be iconic , to look different . to look like it 's for a kid , but not like a toy .
and then the integration of all these great technologies , which you 've heard about , the wi - fi antennas that allow the kids to connect ; the screen , which you can read in sunlight ; the keyboard , which is made out of rubber , and it 's protected from the environment .
you know , all these great technologies really happened because of the passion and the olpc people and the engineers .
they fought the suppliers , they fought the manufacturers .
i mean , they fought like animals for this to remain they way it is .
and in a way , it is that will that makes projects like this one -- allows the process from not destroying the original idea .
and i think this is something really important .
so , now you get these pictures -- you get up in the morning , and you see the kids in nigeria and you see them in uruguay with their computers , and in mongolia .
and we went away from obviously the beige .
i mean it 's colorful , it 's fun .
in fact , you can see each logo is a little bit different .
it 's because we were able to run , during the manufacturing process , 20 colors for the x and the o , which is the name of the computer , and by mixing them on the manufacturing floor , you get 20 times 20: you get 400 different options there .
so , the lessons from seeing the kids using them in the developing world are incredible .
but this is my nephew , anthony , in switzerland , and he had the laptop for an afternoon , and i had to take it back . it was hard .
and it was a prototype . and a month and a half later , i come back to switzerland , and there he is playing with his own version .
like paper , paper and cardboard .
so , i 'm going to finish with one last project , and this is a little bit more of adult play .
some of you might have heard about the new york city condom .
it 's actually just launched , actually launched on valentine 's day , february 14 , about 10 days ago .
so , the department of health in new york came to us , and they needed a way to distribute 36 million condoms for free to the citizens of new york .
so a pretty big endeavor , and we worked on the dispensers .
these are the dispensers . there 's this friendly shape .
it 's a little bit like designing a fire hydrant , and it has to be easily serviceable : you have to know where it is and what it does .
and we also designed the condoms themselves .
and i was just in new york at the launch , and i went to see all these places where they 're installed : this is at a puerto rican little mom - and - pop store ; at a bar in christopher street ; at a pool hall .
i mean , they 're being installed in homeless clinics -- everywhere .
of course , clubs and discos , too .
and here 's the public service announcement for this project .
get some .
so , this is really where design is able to create a conversation .
i was in these venues , and people were , you know , really into getting them . they were excited .
it was breaking the ice , it was getting over a stigma , and i think that 's also what design can do .
so , i was going to throw some condoms in the room and whatnot , but i 'm not sure it 's the etiquette here .
yeah ? all right , all right . i have only a few .
so , i have more , you can always ask me for some more later .
and if anybody asks why you 're carrying a condom , you can just say you like the design .
so , i 'll finish with just one thought : if we all work together on creating value , but if we really keep in mind the values of the work that we do , i think we can change the work that we do .
we can change these values , can change the companies we work with , and eventually , together , maybe we can change the world .
so , thank you .
dave eggers : my wish : once upon a school 
 accepting his 2008 ted prize , author dave eggers asks the ted community to personally , creatively engage with local public schools . with spellbinding eagerness , he talks about how his 826 valencia tutoring center inspired others around the world to open 
thank you so much everyone from ted , and chris and amy in particular .
i cannot believe i 'm here .
i have not slept in weeks .
neil and i were sitting there comparing how little we 've slept in anticipation for this . i 've never been so nervous -- and i do this when i 'm nervous , i just realized .
so , i 'm going to talk about sort of what we did at this organization called 826 valencia , and then i 'm going to talk about how we all might join in and do similar things .
back in about 2000 , i was living in brooklyn , i was trying to finish my first book , i was wandering around dazed every day because i wrote from 12 a.m. to 5 a.m.
so i would walk around in a daze during the day .
i had no mental acuity to speak of during the day , but i had flexible hours .
in the brooklyn neighborhood that i lived in , park slope , there are a lot of writers -- it 's like a very high per capita ratio of writers to normal people .
meanwhile , i had grown up around a lot of teachers .
my mom was a teacher , my sister became a teacher and after college so many of my friends went into teaching .
and so i was always hearing them talk about their lives and how inspiring they were , and they were really sort of the most hard - working and constantly inspiring people i knew .
but i knew so many of the things they were up against , so many of the struggles they were dealing with .
and one of them was that so many of my friends that were teaching in city schools were having trouble with their students keeping up at grade level , in their reading and writing in particular .
now , so many of these students had come from households where english is n't spoken in the home , where a lot of them have different special needs , learning disabilities . and of course they 're working in schools which sometimes and very often are under - funded .
and so they would talk to me about this and say , " you know , what we really need is just more people , more bodies , more one - on - one attention , more hours , more expertise from people that have skills in english and can work with these students one - on - one . "
now , i would say , " well , why do n't you just work with them one - on - one ? "
and they would say , " well , we have five classes of 30 to 40 students each .
this can lead up to 150 , 180 , 200 students a day .
how can we possibly give each student even one hour a week of one - on - one attention ? "
you 'd have to greatly multiply the workweek and clone the teachers .
and so we started talking about this .
and at the same time , i thought about this massive group of people i knew : writers , editors , journalists , graduate students , assistant professors , you name it .
all these people that had sort of flexible daily hours and an interest in the english word -- i hope to have an interest in the english language , but i 'm not speaking it well right now .
i 'm trying . that clock has got me .
but everyone that i knew had an interest in the primacy of the written word in terms of nurturing a democracy , nurturing an enlightened life .
and so they had , you know , their time and their interest , but at the same time there was n't a conduit that i knew of in my community to bring these two communities together .
so when i moved back to san francisco , we rented this building .
and the idea was to put mcsweeney 's -- mcsweeney 's quarterly , that we published twice or three times a year , and a few other magazines -- we were going to move it into an office for the first time .
it used to be in my kitchen in brooklyn .
we were going to move it into an office , and we were going to actually share space with a tutoring center .
so we thought , " we 'll have all these writers and editors and everybody -- sort of a writing community -- coming into the office every day anyway , why do n't we just open up the front of the building for students to come in there after school , get extra help on their written homework , so you have basically no border between these two communities ? "
so the idea was that we would be working on whatever we 're working on , at 2:30 p.m. the students flow in and you put down what you 're doing , or you trade , or you work a little bit later or whatever it is .
you give those hours in the afternoon to the students in the neighborhood .
so , we had this place , we rented it , the landlord was all for it . we did this mural , that 's a chris ware mural , that basically explains the entire history of the printed word , in mural form -- it takes a long time to digest and you have to stand in the middle of the road .
so we rented this space .
and everything was great except the landlord said , " well , the space is zoned for retail ; you have to come up with something .
you 've gotta sell something .
you can n't just have a tutoring center . "
so we thought , " ha ha ! really ! "
and we could n't think of anything necessarily to sell , but we did all the necessary research .
it used to be a weight room , so there were rubber floors below , acoustic tile ceilings and fluorescent lights .
we took all that down , and we found beautiful wooden floors , whitewashed beams and it had the look -- while we were renovating this place , somebody said , " you know , it really kind of looks like the hull of a ship . "
and we looked around and somebody else said , " well , you should sell supplies to the working buccaneer . "
and so this is what we did . so it made everybody laugh , and we said , " there 's a point to that .
let 's sell pirate supplies . " this is the pirate supply store .
you see , this is sort of a sketch i did on a napkin .
a great carpenter built all this stuff and you see , we made it look sort of pirate supply - like .
here you see planks sold by the foot and we have supplies to combat scurvy .
we have the peg legs there , that are all handmade and fitted to you .
up at the top , you see the eyepatch display , which is the black column there for everyday use for your eyepatch , and then you have the pastel and other colors for stepping out at night -- special occasions , bar mitzvahs and whatever .
so we opened this place . and this is a vat that we fill with treasures that students dig in .
this is replacement eyes in case you lose one .
these are some signs that we have all over the place : " practical joking with pirates . "
while you 're reading the sign , we pull a rope behind the counter and eight mop heads drop on your head .
that was just my one thing -- i said we had to have something that drops on people 's heads .
it became mop heads . and this is the fish theater , which is just a saltwater tank with three seats , and then right behind it we set up this space , which was the tutoring center .
so right there is the tutoring center , and then behind the curtain were the mcsweeney 's offices , where all of us would be working on the magazine and book editing and things like that .
the kids would come in -- or we thought they would come in . i should back up .
we set the place up , we opened up , we spent months and months renovating this place .
we had tables , chairs , computers , everything .
i went to a dot - com auction at a holiday inn in palo alto and i bought 11 g4s with a stroke of a paddle .
anyway , we bought ' em , we set everything up and then we waited .
it was started with about 12 of my friends , people that i had known for years that were writers in the neighborhood .
and we sat . and at 2:30 p.m. we put a sandwich board out on the front sidewalk and it just said , " free tutoring for your english - related and writing - related needs -- just come in , it 's all free . "
and we thought , " oh , they 're going to storm the gates , they 're gonna love it . " and they did n't .
and so we waited , we sat at the tables , we waited and waited .
and everybody was becoming very discouraged because it was weeks and weeks that we waited , really , where nobody came in .
and then somebody alerted us to the fact that maybe there was a trust gap , because we were operating behind a pirate supply store .
we never put it together , you know ?
and so then , around that time , i persuaded a woman named nineveh caligari , a longtime san francisco educator -- she was teaching in mexico city , she had all the experience necessary , knew everything about education , was connected with all the teachers and community members in the neighborhood -- i convinced her to move up from mexico city where she was teaching .
she took over as executive director .
immediately , she made the inroads with the teachers and the parents and the students and everything , and so suddenly it was actually full every day .
and what we were trying to offer every day was one - on - one attention .
the goal was to have a one - to - one ratio with every one of these students .
you know , it 's been proven that 35 to 40 hours a year with one - on - one attention , a student can get one grade level higher .
and so most of these students , english is not spoken in the home .
they come there , many times their parents -- you can n't see it , but there 's a church pew that i bought in a berkeley auction right there -- the parents will sometimes watch while their kids are being tutored .
so that was the basis of it , was one - on - one attention .
and we found ourselves full every day with kids .
if you 're on valencia street within those few blocks at around 2 p.m. , 2:30 p.m. , you will get run over , often , by the kids and their big backpacks , or whatever , actually running to this space , which is very strange , because it 's school , in a way .
but there was something psychological happening there that was just a little bit different .
and the other thing was , there was no stigma .
kids were n't going into the " center - for - kids - that - need - more - help , " or something like that . it was 826 valencia .
first of all , it was a pirate supply store , which is insane .
and then secondly , there 's a publishing company in the back .
and so our interns were actually working at the same tables very often , and shoulder - to - shoulder , computer - next - to - computer with the students .
and so it became a tutoring center -- publishing center , is what we called it -- and a writing center .
they go in , and they might be working with a high school student actually working on a novel -- because we had very gifted kids , too .
so there 's no stigma .
they 're all working next to each other . it 's all a creative endeavor .
they 're seeing adults . they 're modeling their behavior .
these adults , they 're working in their field .
they can lean over , ask a question of one of these adults and it all sort of feeds on each other .
there 's a lot of cross - pollination . the only problem , especially for the adults working at mcsweeney 's who had n't necessarily bought into all of this when they signed up , was that there was just the one bathroom .
with like 60 kids a day , this is a problem .
but you know , there 's something about the kids finishing their homework in a given day , working one - on - one , getting all this attention -- they go home , they 're finished . they do n't stall .
they do n't do their homework in front of the tv .
they 're allowed to go home at 5:30 p.m. , enjoy their family , enjoy other hobbies , get outside , play .
and that makes a happy family .
a bunch of happy families in a neighborhood is a happy community .
a bunch of happy communities tied together is a happy city and a happy world .
so the key to it all is homework !
there you have it , you know -- one - on - one attention .
so we started off with about 12 volunteers , and then we had about 50 , and then a couple hundred .
and we now have 1,400 volunteers on our roster .
and we make it incredibly easy to volunteer .
the key thing is , even if you only have a couple of hours a month , those two hours shoulder - to - shoulder , next to one student , concentrated attention , shining this beam of light on their work , on their thoughts and their self-expression , is going to be absolutely transformative , because so many of the students have not had that ever before .
so we said , " even if you have two hours one sunday every six months , it does n't matter . that 's going to be enough . "
so that 's partly why the tutor corps grew so fast .
then we said , " well , what are we going to do with the space during the day , because it has to be used before 2:30 p.m. ? "
so we started bringing in classes during the day .
so every day , there 's a field trip where they together create a book -- you can see it being typed up above .
this is one of the classes getting way too excited about writing .
you just point a camera at a class , and it always looks like this .
so this is one of the books that they do .
notice the title of the book , " the book that was never checked out : titanic . "
and the first line of that book is , " once there was a book named cindy that was about the titanic . "
so , meanwhile , there 's an adult in the back typing this up , taking it completely seriously , which blows their mind .
so then we still had more tutors to use .
this is a shot of just some of the tutors during one of the events .
the teachers that we work with -- and everything is different to teachers -- they tell us what to do .
we went in there thinking , " we 're ultimately , completely malleable . you 're going to tell us .
the neighborhood 's going to tell us , the parents are going to tell us .
the teachers are going to tell us how we 're most useful . "
so then they said , " why do n't you come into the schools ?
because what about the students that would n't come to you , necessarily , who do n't have really active parents that are bringing them in , or are n't close enough ? " so then we started saying , " well , we 've got 1,400 people on our tutor roster .
let 's just put out the word . " a teacher will say , " i need 12 tutors for the next five sundays .
we 're working on our college essays . send them in . "
so we put that out on the wire : 1,400 tutors .
whoever can make it signs up . they go in about a half an hour before the class .
the teacher tells them what to do , how to do it , what their training is , what their project is so far .
they work under the teacher 's guide , and it 's all in one big room .
and that 's actually the brunt of what we do is , people going straight from their workplace , straight from home , straight into the classroom and working directly with the students .
so then we 're able to work with thousands and thousands of more students .
then another school said , " well , what if we just give you a classroom and you can staff it all day ? "
so this is the everett middle school writers ' room , where we decorated it in buccaneer style .
it 's right off the library . and there we serve all 529 kids in this middle school .
this is their newspaper , the " straight - up news , " that has an ongoing column from mayor gavin newsom in both languages -- english and spanish .
so then one day isabel allende wrote to us and said , " hey , why do n't you assign a book with high school students ?
i want them to write about how to achieve peace in a violent world . "
and so we went into thurgood marshall high school , which is a school that we had worked with on some other things , and we gave that assignment to the students .
and we said , " isabel allende is going to read all your essays at the end .
she 's going to publish them in a book .
she 's going to sponsor the printing of this book in paperback form .
it 's going to be available in all the bookstores in the bay area and throughout the world , on amazon and you name it . "
so these kids worked harder than they 've ever worked on anything in their lives , because there was that outside audience , there was isabel allende on the other end .
i think we had about 170 tutors that worked on this book with them and so this worked out incredibly well .
we had a big party at the end .
this is a book that you can find anywhere . so that led to a series of these .
you can see amy tan sponsored the next one , " i might get somewhere . "
and this became an ongoing thing . more and more books .
now we 're sort of addicted to the book thing .
the kids will work harder than they 've ever worked in their life if they know it 's going to be permanent , know it 's going to be on a shelf , know that nobody can diminish what they 've thought and said , that we 've honored their words , honored their thoughts with hundreds of hours of five drafts , six drafts -- all this attention that we give to their thoughts .
and once they achieve that level , once they 've written at that level , they can never go back .
it 's absolutely transformative .
and so then they 're all sold in the store . this is near the planks .
we sell all the student books .
where else would you put them , right ?
so we sell ' em , and then something weird had been happening with the stores . the store , actually -- even though we started out as just a gag -- the store actually made money .
so it was paying the rent .
and maybe this is just a san francisco thing -- i do n't know , i do n't want to judge .
but people would come in -- and this was before the pirate movies and everything !
it was making a lot of money . not a lot of money , but it was paying the rent , paying a full - time staff member there .
there 's the ocean maps you can see on the left .
and it became a gateway to the community .
people would come in and say , " what the -- ?
what is this ? " i do n't want to swear on the web .
is that a rule ? i do n't know .
they would say , " what is this ? "
and people would come in and learn more about it .
and then right beyond -- there 's usually a little chain there -- right beyond , they would see the kids being tutored .
this is a field trip going on . and so they would be shopping , and they might be more likely to buy some lard , or millet for their parrot , or , you know , a hook , or hook protector for nighttime , all of these things we sell .
so the store actually did really well .
but it brought in so many people -- teachers , donors , volunteers , everybody -- because it was street level . it was open to the public .
it was n't a non-profit buried , you know , on the 30th floor of some building downtown . it was right in the neighborhood that it was serving , and it was open all the time to the public .
so , it became this sort of weird , happy accident .
so all the people i used to know in brooklyn , they said , " well , why do n't we have a place like that here ? "
and a lot of them had been former educators or would - be educators , so they combined with a lot of local designers , local writers , and they just took the idea independently and they did their own thing .
they did n't want to sell pirate supplies .
they did n't think that that was going to work there .
so , knowing the crime - fighting community in new york , they opened the brooklyn superhero supply company .
this is sam potts ' great design that did this .
and this was to make it look sort of like one of those keysmith 's shops that has to have every service they 've ever offered , you know , all over there .
so they opened this place . inside , it 's like a costco for superheroes -- all the supplies in kind of basic form .
these are all handmade .
these are all sort of repurposed other products , or whatever .
all the packaging is done by sam potts .
so then you have the villain containment unit , where kids put their parents . you have the office .
this is a little vault -- you have to put your product in there , it goes up an electric lift and then the guy behind the counter tells you that you have to recite the vow of heroism , which you do , if you want to buy anything . and it limits , really , their sales .
personally , i think it 's a problem .
because they have to do it hand on heart and everything .
these are some of the products . these are all handmade .
this is a secret identity kit .
if you want to take on the identity of sharon boone , one american female marketing executive from hoboken , new jersey . it 's a full dossier on everything you would need to know about sharon boone .
so , this is the capery where you get fitted for your cape , and then you walk up these three steel - graded steps and then we turn on three hydraulic fans from every side and then you can see the cape in action .
there 's nothing worse than , you know , getting up there and the cape is bunching up or something like that .
so then , the secret door -- this is one of the shelves you do n't see when you walk in , but it slowly opens .
you can see it there in the middle next to all the grappling hooks .
it opens and then this is the tutoring center in the back .
so you can see the full effect !
but this is -- i just want to emphasize -- locally funded , locally built .
all the designers , all of the builders , everybody was local , all the time was pro-bono .
i just came and visited and said , " yes , you guys are doing great , " or whatever . that was it . you can see the time in all five boroughs of new york in the back .
so this is the space during tutoring hours .
it 's very busy . same principles : one - on - one attention , complete devotion to the students ' work and a boundless optimism and sort of a possibility of creativity and ideas .
and this switch is flicked in their heads when they walk through those 18 feet of this bizarre store , right ?
so it 's school , but it 's not school .
it 's clearly not school , even though they 're working shoulder - to - shoulder on tables , pencils and papers , whatever .
this is one of the students , khaled hamdan .
you can read this quote .
addicted to video games and tv . could n't concentrate at home .
came in . got this concentrated attention .
and he could n't escape it .
so , soon enough , he was writing . he would finish his homework early -- got really addicted to finishing his homework early .
it 's an addictive thing to sort of be done with it , and to have it checked , and to know he 's going to achieve the next thing and be prepared for school the next day .
so he got hooked on that , and then he started doing other things .
he 's now been published in five books .
he co-wrote a mockumentary about failed superheroes called " super - has - beens . "
he wrote a series on " penguin balboa , " which is a fighting -- a boxing -- penguin .
and then he read aloud just a few weeks ago to 500 people at symphony space , at a benefit for 826 new york . so he 's there every day .
he 's evangelical about it . he brings his cousins in now .
there 's four family members that come in every day .
so , i 'll go through really quickly .
this is l.a. , the echo park time travel mart : " whenever you are , we 're already then . "
this is sort of a 7 - eleven for time travelers .
so you see everything : it 's exactly as a 7 - eleven would be .
leeches . mammoth chunks . they even have their own slurpee machine : " out of order . come back yesterday . "
anyway . so i 'm going to jump ahead .
these are spaces that are only affiliated with us , doing this same thing : word st . in pittsfield , massachusetts ; ink spot in cincinnati ; youth speaks , san francisco , california , which inspired us ; studio st . louis in st . louis ; austin bat cave in austin ; fighting words in dublin , ireland , started by roddy doyle , this will be open in april .
now i 'm going to the ted wish -- is that okay ?
all right , i 've got a minute . so , the ted wish : i wish that you -- you personally and every creative individual and organization you know -- will find a way to directly engage with a public school in your area and that you 'll then tell the story of how you got involved , so that within a year we have a thousand examples -- a thousand ! -- of transformative partnerships .
profound leaps forward !
and these can be things that maybe you 're already doing .
i know that so many people in this room are already doing really interesting things .
i know that for a fact . so , tell us these stories and inspire others on the website .
we created a website .
i 'm going to switch to " we , " and not " i , " hope : we hope that the attendees of this conference will usher in a new era of participation in our public schools .
we hope that you will take the lead in partnering your innovative spirit and expertise with that of innovative educators in your community .
always let the teachers lead the way .
they will tell you how to be useful . i hope that you 'll step in and help out .
there are a million ways .
you can walk up to your local school and consult with the teachers . they 'll always tell you how to help .
so , this is with hot studio in san francisco , they did this phenomenal job .
this website is already up , it 's already got a bunch of stories , a lot of ideas . it 's called " once upon a school , " which is a great title , i think .
this site will document every story , every project that comes out of this conference and around the world . so you go to the website , you see a bunch of ideas you can be inspired by and then you add your own projects once you get started .
hot studio did a great job in a very tight deadline . so , visit the site .
if you have any questions , you can ask this guy , who 's our director of national programs . he 'll be on the phone .
you email him , he 'll answer any question you possibly want .
and he 'll get you inspired and get you going and guide you through the process so that you can affect change .
and it can be fun ! that 's the point of this talk -- it need n't be sterile . it need n't be bureaucratically untenable .
you can do and use the skills that you have .
the schools need you . the teachers need you .
students and parents need you . they need your actual person : your physical personhood and your open minds and open ears and boundless compassion , sitting next to them , listening and nodding and asking questions for hours at a time .
some of these kids just do n't plain know how good they are : how smart and how much they have to say .
you can tell them . you can shine that light on them , one human interaction at a time . so we hope you 'll join us .
thank you so much .
paul root wolpe : it 's time to question bio - engineering 
 bioethicist paul root wolpe describes an astonishing series of recent bio - engineering experiments , from glowing dogs to mice that grow human ears . he asks : is n't it time to set some ground rules ? & lt ; em & gt ;& lt ;/ em & gt ;
today i want to talk about design , but not design as we usually think about it .
i want to talk about what is happening now in our scientific , biotechnological culture , where , for really the first time in history , we have the power to design bodies , to design animal bodies , to design human bodies .
in the history of our planet , there have been three great waves of evolution .
the first wave of evolution is what we think of as darwinian evolution .
so , as you all know , species lived in particular ecological niches and particular environments , and the pressures of those environments selected which changes , through random mutation in species , were going to be preserved .
then human beings stepped out of the darwinian flow of evolutionary history and created the second great wave of evolution , which was we changed the environment in which we evolved .
we altered our ecological niche by creating civilization .
and that has been the second great -- couple 100,000 years , 150,000 years -- flow of our evolution .
by changing our environment , we put new pressures on our bodies to evolve .
whether it was through settling down in agricultural communities , all the way through modern medicine , we have changed our own evolution .
now we 're entering a third great wave of evolutionary history , which has been called many things : " intentional evolution , " " evolution by design " -- very different than intelligent design -- whereby we are actually now intentionally designing and altering the physiological forms that inhabit our planet .
so i want to take you through a kind of whirlwind tour of that and then at the end talk a little bit about what some of the implications are for us and for our species , as well as our cultures , because of this change .
now we actually have been doing it for a long time .
we started selectively breeding animals many , many thousands of years ago .
and if you think of dogs for example , dogs are now intentionally - designed creatures .
there is n't a dog on this earth that 's a natural creature .
dogs are the result of selectively breeding traits that we like .
but we had to do it the hard way in the old days by choosing offspring that looked a particular way and then breeding them .
we do n't have to do it that way anymore .
this is a beefalo .
a beefalo is a buffalo - cattle hybrid .
and they are now making them , and someday , perhaps pretty soon , you will have beefalo patties in your local supermarket .
this is a geep , a goat - sheep hybrid .
the scientists that made this cute little creature ended up slaughtering it and eating it afterwards .
i think they said it tasted like chicken .
this is a cama .
a cama is a camel - llama hybrid , created to try to get the hardiness of a camel with some of the personality traits of a llama .
and they are now using these in certain cultures .
then there 's the liger .
this is the largest cat in the world -- the lion - tiger hybrid .
it 's bigger than a tiger .
and in the case of the liger , there actually have been one or two that have been seen in the wild .
but these were created by scientists using both selective breeding and genetic technology .
and then finally , everybody 's favorite , the zorse .
none of this is photoshopped . these are real creatures .
and so one of the things we 've been doing is using genetic enhancement , or genetic manipulation , of normal selective breeding pushed a little bit through genetics .
and if that were all this was about , then it would be an interesting thing .
but something much , much more powerful is happening now .
these are normal mammalian cells genetically engineered with a bioluminescent gene taken out of deep - sea jellyfish .
we all know that some deep - sea creatures glow .
well , they 've now taken that gene , that bioluminescent gene , and put it into mammal cells .
these are normal cells .
and what you see here is these cells glowing in the dark under certain wavelengths of light .
once they could do that with cells , they could do it with organisms .
so they did it with mouse pups , kittens .
and by the way , the reason the kittens here are orange and these are green is because that 's a bioluminescent gene from coral , while this is from jellyfish .
they did it with pigs .
they did it with puppies .
and , in fact , they did it with monkeys .
and if you can do it with monkeys -- though the great leap in trying to genetically manipulate is actually between monkeys and apes -- if they can do it in monkeys , they can probably figure out how to do it in apes , which means they can do it in human beings .
in other words , it is theoretically possible that before too long we will be biotechnologically capable of creating human beings that glow in the dark .
be easier to find us at night .
and in fact , right now in many states , you can go out and you can buy bioluminescent pets .
these are zebra fish . they 're normally black and silver .
these are zebra fish that have been genetically engineered to be yellow , green , red , and they are actually available now in certain states .
other states have banned them .
nobody knows what to do with these kinds of creatures .
there is no area of the government -- not the epa or the fda -- that controls genetically - engineered pets .
and so some states have decided to allow them , some states have decided to ban them .
some of you may have read about the fda 's consideration right now of genetically - engineered salmon .
the salmon on top is a genetically engineered chinook salmon , using a gene from these salmon and from one other fish that we eat , to make it grow much faster using a lot less feed .
and right now the fda is trying to make a final decision on whether , pretty soon , you could be eating this fish -- it 'll be sold in the stores .
and before you get too worried about it , here in the united states , the majority of food you buy in the supermarket already has genetically - modified components to it .
so even as we worry about it , we have allowed it to go on in this country -- much different in europe -- without any regulation , and even without any identification on the package .
these are all the first cloned animals of their type .
so in the lower right here , you have dolly , the first cloned sheep -- now happily stuffed in a museum in edinburgh ; ralph the rat , the first cloned rat ; cc the cat , for cloned cat ; snuppy , the first cloned dog -- snuppy for seoul national university puppy -- created in south korea by the very same man that some of you may remember had to end up resigning in disgrace because he claimed he had cloned a human embryo , which he had not .
he actually was the first person to clone a dog , which is a very difficult thing to do , because dog genomes are very plastic .
this is prometea , the first cloned horse .
it 's a haflinger horse cloned in italy , a real " gold ring " of cloning , because there are many horses that win important races who are geldings .
in other words , the equipment to put them out to stud has been removed .
but if you can clone that horse , you can have both the advantage of having a gelding run in the race and his identical genetic duplicate can then be put out to stud .
these were the first cloned calves , the first cloned grey wolves , and then , finally , the first cloned piglets : alexis , chista , carrel , janie and dotcom .
in addition , we 've started to use cloning technology to try to save endangered species .
this is the use of animals now to create drugs and other things in their bodies that we want to create .
so with antithrombin in that goat -- that goat has been genetically modified so that the molecules of its milk actually include the molecule of antithrombin that gtc genetics wants to create .
and then in addition , transgenic pigs , knockout pigs , from the national institute of animal science in south korea , are pigs that they are going to use , in fact , to try to create all kinds of drugs and other industrial types of chemicals that they want the blood and the milk of these animals to produce for them , instead of producing them in an industrial way .
these are two creatures that were created in order to save endangered species .
the guar is an endangered southeast asian ungulate .
a somatic cell , a body cell , was taken from its body , gestated in the ovum of a cow , and then that cow gave birth to a guar .
same thing happened with the mouflon , where it 's an endangered species of sheep .
it was gestated in a regular sheep body , which actually raises an interesting biological problem .
we have two kinds of dna in our bodies .
we have our nucleic dna that everybody thinks of as our dna , but we also have dna in our mitochondria , which are the energy packets of the cell .
that dna is passed down through our mothers .
so really , what you end up having here is not a guar and not a mouflon , but a guar with cow mitochondria , and therefore cow mitochondrial dna , and a mouflon with another species of sheep 's mitochondrial dna .
these are really hybrids , not pure animals .
and it raises the question of how we 're going to define animal species in the age of biotechnology -- a question that we 're not really sure yet how to solve .
this lovely creature is an asian cockroach .
and what they 've done here is they 've put electrodes in its ganglia and its brain and then a transmitter on top , and it 's on a big computer tracking ball .
and now , using a joystick , they can send this creature around the lab and control whether it goes left or right , forwards or backwards .
they 've created a kind of insect bot , or bugbot .
it gets worse than that -- or perhaps better than that .
this actually is one of darpa 's very important -- darpa is the defense research agency -- one of their projects .
these goliath beetles are wired in their wings .
they have a computer chip strapped to their backs , and they can fly these creatures around the lab .
they can make them go left , right . they can make them take off .
they can n't actually make them land .
they put them about one inch above the ground , and then they shut everything off and they go pfft .
but it 's the closest they can get to a landing .
and in fact , this technology has gotten so developed that this creature -- this is a moth -- this is the moth in its pupa stage , and that 's when they put the wires in and they put in the computer technology , so that when the moth actually emerges as a moth , it is already prewired .
the wires are already in its body , and they can just hook it up to their technology , and now they 've got these bugbots that they can send out for surveillance .
they can put little cameras on them and perhaps someday deliver other kinds of ordinance to warzones .
it 's not just insects .
this is the ratbot , or the robo - rat by sanjiv talwar at suny downstate .
again , it 's got technology -- it 's got electrodes going into its left and right hemispheres ; it 's got a camera on top of its head .
the scientists can make this creature go left , right .
they have it running through mazes , controlling where it 's going .
they 've now created an organic robot .
the graduate students in sanjiv talwar 's lab said , " is this ethical ?
we 've taken away the autonomy of this animal . "
i 'll get back to that in a minute .
there 's also been work done with monkeys .
this is miguel nicolelis of duke .
he took owl monkeys , wired them up so that a computer watched their brains while they moved , especially looking at the movement of their right arm .
the computer learned what the monkey brain did to move its arm in various ways .
they then hooked it up to a prosthetic arm , which you see here in the picture , put the arm in another room .
pretty soon , the computer learned , by reading the monkey 's brainwaves , to make that arm in the other room do whatever the monkey 's arm did .
then he put a video monitor in the monkey 's cage that showed the monkey this prosthetic arm , and the monkey got fascinated .
the monkey recognized that whatever she did with her arm , this prosthetic arm would do .
and eventually she was moving it and moving it , and eventually stopped moving her right arm and , staring at the screen , could move the prosthetic arm in the other room only with her brainwaves -- which means that monkey became the first primate in the history of the world to have three independent functional arms .
and it 's not just technology that we 're putting into animals .
this is thomas demarse at the university of florida .
he took 20,000 and then 60,000 disaggregated rat neurons -- so these are just individual neurons from rats -- put them on a chip .
they self-aggregated into a network , became an integrated chip .
and he used that as the it piece of a mechanism which ran a flight simulator .
so now we have organic computer chips made out of living , self-aggregating neurons .
finally , mussa - ivaldi of northwestern took a completely intact , independent lamprey eel brain .
this is a brain from a lamprey eel .
it is living -- fully - intact brain in a nutrient medium with these electrodes going off to the sides , attached photosensitive sensors to the brain , put it into a cart -- here 's the cart , the brain is sitting there in the middle -- and using this brain as the sole processor for this cart , when you turn on a light and shine it at the cart , the cart moves toward the light ; when you turn it off , it moves away .
it 's photophilic .
so now we have a complete living lamprey eel brain .
is it thinking lamprey eel thoughts , sitting there in its nutrient medium ?
i do n't know , but in fact it is a fully living brain that we have managed to keep alive to do our bidding .
so , we are now at the stage where we are creating creatures for our own purposes .
this is a mouse created by charles vacanti of the university of massachusetts .
he altered this mouse so that it was genetically engineered to have skin that was less immunoreactive to human skin , put a polymer scaffolding of an ear under it and created an ear that could then be taken off the mouse and transplanted onto a human being .
genetic engineering coupled with polymer physiotechnology coupled with xenotransplantation .
this is where we are in this process .
finally , not that long ago , craig venter created the first artificial cell , where he took a cell , took a dna synthesizer , which is a machine , created an artificial genome , put it in a different cell -- the genome was not of the cell he put it in -- and that cell then reproduced as the other cell .
in other words , that was the first creature in the history of the world that had a computer as its parent -- it did not have an organic parent .
and so , asks the economist : " the first artificial organism and its consequences . "
so you may have thought that the creation of life was going to happen in something that looked like that .
but in fact , that 's not what frankenstein 's lab looks like .
this is what frankenstein 's lab looks like .
this is a dna synthesizer , and here at the bottom are just bottles of a , t , c and g -- the four chemicals that make up our dna chain .
and so , we need to ask ourselves some questions .
for the first time in the history of this planet , we are able to directly design organisms .
we can manipulate the plasmas of life with unprecedented power , and it confers on us a responsibility .
is everything okay ?
is it okay to manipulate and create whatever creatures we want ?
do we have free reign to design animals ?
do we get to go someday to pets ' r ' us and say , " look , i want a dog .
i 'd like it to have the head of a dachshund , the body of a retriever , maybe some pink fur , and let 's make it glow in the dark " ?
does industry get to create creatures who , in their milk , in their blood , and in their saliva and other bodily fluids , create the drugs and industrial molecules we want and then warehouse them as organic manufacturing machines ?
do we get to create organic robots , where we remove the autonomy from these animals and turn them just into our playthings ?
and then the final step of this , once we perfect these technologies in animals and we start using them in human beings , what are the ethical guidelines that we will use then ?
it 's already happening . it 's not science fiction .
we are not only already using these things in animals , some of them we 're already beginning to use on our own bodies .
we are now taking control of our own evolution .
we are directly designing the future of the species of this planet .
it confers upon us an enormous responsibility that is not just the responsibility of the scientists and the ethicists who are thinking about it and writing about it now .
it is the responsibility of everybody because it will determine what kind of planet and what kind of bodies we will have in the future .
thanks .
pter fankhauser : meet rezero , the dancing ballbot 
 engineering student pter fankhauser demonstrates rezero , a robot that balances on a ball . designed and built by students , rezero is the first ballbot made to move quickly and gracefully -- and even dance . 
let me introduce to you rezero .
this little fellow was developed by a group of 10 undergraduate students at the autonomous systems laboratory at eth - zurich .
our robot belongs to a family of robots called ballbots .
instead of wheels , a ballbot is balancing and moving on one single ball .
the main characteristics of such a system is that there 's one sole contact point to the ground .
this means that the robot is inherently unstable .
it 's like when i am trying to stand on one foot .
you might ask yourself , what 's the usefulness of a robot that 's unstable ?
now we 'll explain that in a second .
let me first explain how rezero actually keeps his balance .
rezero keeps his balance by constantly measuring his pitch angle with a sensor .
he then counteracts and avoids toppling over by turning the motors appropriately .
this happens 160 times per second , and if anything fails in this process , rezero would immediately fall to the ground .
now to move and to balance , rezero needs to turn the ball .
the ball is driven by three special wheels that allow rezero to move into any direction and also move around his own axis at the same time .
due to his instability , rezero is always in motion . now here 's the trick .
it 's indeed exactly this instability that allows a robot to move very [ dynamically ] .
let 's play a little .
you may have wondered what happens if i give the robot a little push .
in this mode , he 's trying to maintain his position .
for the next demo , i 'd like you to introduce to my colleagues michael , on the computer , and thomas who 's helping me onstage .
in the next mode , rezero is passive , and we can move him around .
with almost no force i can control his position and his velocity .
i can also make him spin .
in the next mode , we can get rezero to follow a person .
he 's now keeping a constant distance to thomas .
this works with a laser sensor that 's mounted on top of rezero .
with the same method , we can also get him to circle a person .
we call this the orbiting mode .
all right , thank you , thomas .
now , what 's the use of this technology ?
for now , it 's an experiment , but let me show you some possible future applications .
rezero could be used in exhibitions or parks .
with a screen it could inform people or show them around in a fun and entertaining way .
in a hospital , this device could be used to carry around medical equipment .
due to the ballbot system , it has a very small footprint and it 's also easy to move around .
and of course , who would n't like to take a ride on one of these .
and these are more practical applications .
but there 's also a certain beauty within this technology .
thank you .
thank you .
deborah rhodes : a test that finds 3x more breast tumors , and why it 's not available to you 
 working with a team of physicists , dr. deborah rhodes developed a new tool for tumor detection that 's 3 times as effective as traditional mammograms for women with dense breast tissue . the life - saving implications are stunning . so why have n't we heard of it ? rhodes shares the story behind the tool 's creation , and the web of politics and economics that keep it from mainstream use .
there are two groups of women when it comes to screening mammography -- women in whom mammography works very well and has saved thousands of lives and women in whom it does n't work well at all .
do you know which group you 're in ?
if you do n't , you 're not alone .
because the breast has become are very political organ .
the truth has become lost in all the rhetoric coming from the press , politicians , radiologists and medical imaging companies .
i will do my best this morning to tell you what i think is the truth .
but first , my disclosures .
i am not a breast cancer survivor .
i 'm not a radiologist .
i do n't have any patents , and i 've never received any money from a medical imaging company , and i am not seeking your vote .
what i am is a doctor of internal medicine who became passionately interested in this topic about 10 years ago when a patient asked me a question .
she came to see me after discovering a breast lump .
her sister had been diagnosed with breast cancer in her 40s .
she and i were both very pregnant at that time , and my heart just ached for her , imagining how afraid she must be .
fortunately , her lump proved to be benign .
but she asked me a question : how confident was i that i would find a tumor early on her mammogram if she developed one ?
so i studied her mammogram , and i reviewed the radiology literature , and i was shocked to discover that , in her case , our chances of finding a tumor early on the mammogram were less than the toss of a coin .
you may recall a year ago when a firestorm erupted after the united states preventive services task force reviewed the world 's mammography screening literature and issued a guideline recommending against screening mammograms in women in their 40s .
now everybody rushed to criticize the task force , even though most of them were n't in anyway familiar with the mammography studies .
it took the senate just 17 days to ban the use of the guidelines in determining insurance coverage .
radiologists were outraged by the guidelines .
the pre-eminent mammographer in the united states issued the following quote to the washington post .
the radiologists were , in turn , criticized for protecting their own financial self-interest .
but in my view , the radiologists are heroes .
there 's a shortage of radiologists qualified to read mammograms , and that 's because mammograms are one of the most complex of all radiology studies to interpret , and because radiologists are sued more often over missed breast cancer than any other cause .
but that very fact is telling .
where there is this much legal smoke , there is likely to be some fire .
the factor most responsible for that fire is breast density .
breast density refers to the relative amount of fat -- pictured here in yellow -- versus connective and epithelial tissues -- pictured in pink .
and that proportion is primarily genetically determined .
two - thirds of women in their 40s have dense breast tissue , which is why mammography does n't work as well in them .
and although breast density generally declines with age , up to a third of women retain dense breast tissue for years after menopause .
so how do you know if your breasts are dense ?
well , you need to read the details of your mammography report .
radiologists classify breast density into four categories based on the appearance of the tissue on a mammogram .
if the breast is less than 25 percent dense , that 's called fatty - replaced .
the next category is scattered fibroglandular densities , followed by heterogeneously dense and extremely dense .
and breasts that fall into these two categories are considered dense .
the problem with breast density is that it 's truly the wolf in sheep 's clothing .
both tumors and dense breast tissue appear white on a mammogram , and the x - ray often can n't distinguish between the two .
so it 's easy to see this tumor in the upper part of this fatty breast .
but imagine how difficult it would be to find that tumor in this dense breast .
that 's why mammograms find over 80 percent of tumors in fatty breasts , but as few as 40 percent in extremely dense breasts .
now it 's bad enough that breast density makes it hard to find a cancer , but it turns out that it 's also a powerful predictor of your risk for breast cancer .
it 's a stronger risk factor than having a mother or a sister with breast cancer .
at the time my patient posed this question to me , breast density was an obscure topic in the radiology literature , and very few women having mammograms , or the physicians ordering them , knew about this .
but what else could i offer her ?
mammograms have been around since the 1960 's , and it 's changed very little .
there have been surprisingly few innovations , until digital mammography was approved in 2000 .
digital mammography is still an x - ray of the breast , but the images can be stored and manipulated digitally , just like we can with a digital camera .
the u.s. has invested four billion dollars converting to digital mammography equipment , and what have we gained from that investment ?
in a study funded by over 25 million taxpayer dollars , digital mammography was found to be no better over all than traditional mammography , and in fact , it was worse in older women .
but it was better in one group , and that was women under 50 who were pre-menopausal and had dense breasts , and in those women , digital mammography found twice as many cancers , but it still only found 60 percent .
so digital mammography has been a giant leap forward for manufacturers of digital mammography equipment , but it 's been a very small step forward for womankind .
what about ultrasound ?
ultrasound generates more biopsies that are unnecessary relative to other technologies , so it 's not widely used .
and mri is exquisitely sensitive for finding tumors , but it 's also very expensive .
if we think about disruptive technology , we see an almost ubiquitous pattern of the technology getting smaller and less expensive .
think about ipods compared to stereos .
but it 's the exact opposite in health care .
the machines get ever bigger and ever more expensive .
screening the average young woman with an mri is kind of like driving to the grocery store in a hummer .
it 's just way too much equipment .
one mri scan costs 10 times what a digital mammogram costs .
and sooner or later , we 're going to have to accept the fact that health care innovation can n't always come at a much higher price .
malcolm gladwell wrote an article in the new yorker on innovation , and he made the case that scientific discoveries are rarely the product of one individual 's genius .
rather , big ideas can be orchestrated , if you can simply gather people with different perspectives in a room and get them to talk about things that they do n't ordinarily talk about .
it 's like the essence of ted .
he quotes one innovator who says , " the only time a physician and a physicist get together is when the physicist gets sick . "
this makes no sense , because physicians have all kinds of problems that they do n't realize have solutions .
and physicists have all kinds of solutions for things that they do n't realize are problems .
now , take a look at this cartoon that accompanied gladwell 's article , and tell me if you see something disturbing about this depiction of innovative thinkers .
so if you will allow me a little creative license , i will tell you the story of the serendipitous collision of my patient 's problem with a physicist 's solution .
shortly after her visit , i was introduced to a nuclear physicist at mayo named michael o ' conner , who was a specialist in cardiac imaging , something i had nothing to do with .
and he happened to tell me about a conference he 'd just returned from in israel , where they were talking about a new type of gamma detector .
now gamma imaging has been around for a long time to image the heart , and it had even been tried to image the breast .
but the problem was that the gamma detectors were these huge , bulky tubes , and they were filled with these scintillating crystals , and you just could n't get them close enough around the breast to find small tumors .
but the potential advantage was that gamma rays , unlike x - rays , are not influenced by breast density .
but this technology could not find tumors when they 're small , and finding a small tumor is critical for survival .
if you can find a tumor when it 's less than a centimeter , survival exceeds 90 percent , but drops off rapidly as tumor size increases .
but michael told me about a new type of gamma detector that he 'd seen , and this is it .
it 's made not of a bulky tube , but of a thin layer of a semiconductor material that serves as the gamma detector .
and i started talking to him about this problem with breast density , and we realized that we might be able to get this detector close enough around the breast to actually find small tumors .
so after putting together a grid of these cubes with tape -- -- michael hacked off the x - ray plate of a mammography machine that was about to be thrown out , and we attached the new detector , and we decided to call this machine molecular breast imaging , or mbi .
this is an image from our first patient .
and you can see , using the old gamma technology , that it just looked like noise .
but using our new detector , we could begin to see the outline of a tumor .
so here we were , a nuclear physicist , an internist , soon joined by carrie hruska , a biomedical engineer , and two radiologists , and we were trying to take on the entrenched world of mammography with a machine that was held together by duct tape .
to say that we faced high doses of skepticism in those early years is just a huge understatement , but we were so convinced that we might be able to make this work that we chipped away with incremental modifications to this system .
this is our current detector .
and you can see that it looks a lot different .
the duct tape is gone , and we added a second detector on top of the breast , which has further improved our tumor detection .
so how does this work ?
the patient receives an injection of a radio tracer that 's taken up by rapidly proliferating tumor cells , but not by normal cells , and this is the key difference from mammography .
mammography relies on differences in the appearance of the tumor from the background tissue , and we 've seen that those differences can be obscured in a dense breast .
but mbi exploits the different molecular behavior of tumors , and therefore , it 's impervious to breast density .
after the injection , the patient 's breast is placed between the detectors .
and if you 've ever had a mammogram -- if you 're old enough to have had a mammogram -- you know what comes next : pain .
you may be surprised to know that mammography is the only radiologic study that 's regulated by federal law , and the law requires that the equivalent of a 40 - pound car battery come down on your breast during this study .
but with mbi , we use just light , pain - free compression .
and the detector then transmits the image to the computer .
so here 's an example .
you can see , on the right , a mammogram showing a faint tumor , the edges of which are blurred by the dense tissue .
but the mbi image shows that tumor much more clearly , as well as a second tumor , which profoundly influence that patient 's surgical options .
in this example , although the mammogram found one tumor , we were able to demonstrate three discrete tumors -- one is small as three millimeters .
our big break came in 2004 .
after we had demonstrated that we could find small tumors , we used these images to submit a grant to the susan g . komen foundation .
and we were elated when they took a chance on a team of completely unknown investigators and funded us to study 1,000 women with dense breasts , comparing a screening mammogram to an mbi .
of the tumors that we found , mammography found only 25 percent of those tumors .
mbi found 83 percent .
here 's an example from that screening study .
the digital mammogram was read as normal and shows lots of dense tissue , but the mbi shows an area of intense uptake , which correlated with a two - centimeter tumor .
in this case , a one - centimeter tumor .
and in this case , a 45 - year - old medical secretary at mayo , who had lost her mother to breast cancer when she was very young , wanted to enroll in our study .
and her mammogram showed an area of very dense tissue , but her mbi showed an area of worrisome uptake , which we can also see on a color image .
and this corresponded to a tumor the size of a golf ball .
but fortunately it was removed before it had spread to her lymph nodes .
so now that we knew that this technology could find three times more tumors in a dense breast , we had to solve one very important problem .
we had to figure out how to lower the radiation dose , and we have spent the last three years making modifications to every aspect of the imaging system to allow this .
and i 'm very happy to report that we 're now using a dose of radiation that is equivalent to the effective dose from one digital mammogram .
and at this low dose , we 're continuing this screening study , and this image from three weeks ago in a 67 - year - old woman shows a normal digital mammogram , but an mbi image showing an uptake that proved to be a large cancer .
so this is not just young women that it 's benefiting .
it 's also older women with dense tissue .
and we 're now routinely using one - fifth the radiation dose that 's used in any other type of gamma technology .
mbi generates four images per breast .
mri generates over a thousand .
it takes a radiologist years of specialty training to become expert in differentiating the normal anatomic detail from the worrisome finding .
but i suspect even the non-radiologists in the room can find the tumor on the mbi image .
but this is why mbi is so potentially disruptive -- it 's as accurate as mri , it 's far less complex to interpret , and it 's a fraction of the cost .
but you can understand why there may be forces in the breast - imaging world who prefer the status quo .
after achieving what we felt were remarkable results , our manuscript was rejected by four journals .
after the fourth rejection , we requested reconsideration of the manuscript , because we strongly suspected that one of the reviewers who had rejected it had a financial conflict of interest in a competing technology .
our manuscript was then accepted and will be published later this month in the journal radiology .
we still need to complete the screening study using the low dose , and then our findings will need to be replicated at other institutions , and this could take five or more years .
if this technology is widely adopted , i will not benefit financially in any way , and that is very important to me , because it allows me to continue to tell you the truth .
but i recognize -- i recognize that the adoption of this technology will depend as much on economic and political forces as it will on the soundness of the science .
the mbi unit has now been fda approved , but it 's not yet widely available .
so until something is available for women with dense breasts , there are things that you should know to protect yourself .
first , know your density .
ninety percent of women do n't , and 95 percent of women do n't know that it increases your breast cancer risk .
the state of connecticut became the first and only state to mandate that women receive notification of their breast density after a mammogram .
i was at a conference of 60,000 people in breast - imaging last week in chicago , and i was stunned that there was a heated debate as to whether we should be telling women what their breast density is .
of course we should .
and if you do n't know , please ask your doctor or read the details of your mammography report .
second , if you 're pre-menopausal , try to schedule your mammogram in the first two weeks of your menstrual cycle , when breast density is relatively lower .
third , if you notice a persistent change in your breast , insist on additional imaging .
and fourth and most important , the mammography debate will rage on , but i do believe that all women 40 and older should have an annual mammogram .
mammography is n't perfect , but it 's the only test that 's been proven to reduce mortality from breast cancer .
but this mortality banner is the very sword which mammography 's most ardent advocates use to deter innovation .
some women who develop breast cancer die from it many years later , and most women , thankfully , survive .
so it takes 10 or more years for any screening method to demonstrate a reduction in mortality from breast cancer .
mammography 's the only one that 's been around long enough to have a chance of making that claim .
it is time for us to accept both the extraordinary successes of mammography and the limitations .
we need to individualize screening based on density .
for women without dense breasts , mammography is the best choice .
but for women with dense breasts ; we should n't abandon screening altogether , we need to offer them something better .
the babies that we were carrying when my patient first asked me this question are now both in middle school , and the answer has been so slow to come .
she 's given me her blessing to share this story with you .
after undergoing biopsies that further increased her risk for cancer and losing her sister to cancer , she made the difficult decision to have a prophylactic mastectomy .
we can and must do better , not just in time for her granddaughters and my daughters , but in time for you .
thank you .
pranav mistry : the thrilling potential of sixthsense technology 
 at tedindia , pranav mistry demos several tools that help the physical world interact with the world of data -- including a deep look at his sixthsense device and a new , paradigm - shifting paper " laptop . " in an onstage q ; a , mistry says he 'll open - source the software behind sixthsense , to open its possibilities to all .
we grew up interacting with the physical objects around us .
there are an enormous number of them that we use every day .
unlike most of our computing devices , these objects are much more fun to use .
when you talk about objects , one other thing automatically comes attached to that thing , and that is gestures : how we manipulate these objects , how we use these objects in everyday life .
we use gestures not only to interact with these objects , but we also use them to interact with each other .
a gesture of " namaste ! " , maybe , to respect someone , or maybe -- in india i do n't need to teach a kid that this means " four runs " in cricket .
it comes as a part of our everyday learning .
so , i am very interested , from the beginning , that how -- how our knowledge about everyday objects and gestures , and how we use these objects , can be leveraged to our interactions with the digital world .
rather than using a keyboard and mouse , why can i not use my computer in the same way that i interact in the physical world ?
so , i started this exploration around eight years back , and it literally started with a mouse on my desk .
rather than using it for my computer , i actually opened it .
most of you might be aware that , in those days , the mouse used to come with a ball inside , and there were two rollers that actually guide the computer where the ball is moving , and , accordingly , where the mouse is moving .
so , i was interested in these two rollers , and i actually wanted more , so i borrowed another mouse from a friend -- never returned to him -- and i now had four rollers .
interestingly , what i did with these rollers is , basically , i took them off of these mouses and then put them in one line .
it had some strings and pulleys and some springs .
what i got is basically a gesture interface device that actually acts as a motion - sensing device made for two dollars .
so , here , whatever movement i do in my physical world is actually replicated inside the digital world just using this small device that i made , around eight years back , in 2000 .
because i was interested in integrating these two worlds , i thought of sticky notes .
i thought , " why can i not connect the normal interface of a physical sticky note to the digital world ? "
a message written on a sticky note to my mom on paper can come to an sms , or maybe a meeting reminder automatically syncs with my digital calendar -- a to - do list that automatically syncs with you .
but you can also search in the digital world , or maybe you can write a query , saying , " what is dr. smith 's address ? "
and this small system actually prints it out -- so it actually acts like a paper input - output system , just made out of paper .
in another exploration , i thought of making a pen that can draw in three dimensions .
so , i implemented this pen that can help designers and architects not only think in three dimensions , but they can actually draw so that it 's more intuitive to use that way .
then i thought , " why not make a google map , but in the physical world ? "
rather than typing a keyword to find something , i put my objects on top of it .
if i put a boarding pass , it will show me where the flight gate is .
a coffee cup will show where you can find more coffee , or where you can trash the cup .
so , these were some of the earlier explorations i did because the goal was to connect these two worlds seamlessly .
among all these experiments , there was one thing in common : i was trying to bring a part of the physical world to the digital world .
i was taking some part of the objects , or any of the intuitiveness of real life , and bringing them to the digital world , because the goal was to make our computing interfaces more intuitive .
but then i realized that we humans are not actually interested in computing .
what we are interested in is information .
we want to know about things .
we want to know about dynamic things going around .
so i thought , around last year -- in the beginning of the last year -- i started thinking , " why can i not take this approach in the reverse way ? "
maybe , " how about i take my digital world and paint the physical world with that digital information ? "
because pixels are actually , right now , confined in these rectangular devices that fit in our pockets .
why can i not remove this confine and take that to my everyday objects , everyday life so that i do n't need to learn the new language for interacting with those pixels ?
so , in order to realize this dream , i actually thought of putting a big - size projector on my head .
i think that 's why this is called a head - mounted projector , is n't it ?
i took it very literally , and took my bike helmet , put a little cut over there so that the projector actually fits nicely .
so now , what i can do -- i can augment the world around me with this digital information .
but later , i realized that i actually wanted to interact with those digital pixels , also .
so i put a small camera over there , that acts as a digital eye .
later , we moved to a much better , consumer - oriented pendant version of that , that many of you now know as the sixthsense device .
but the most interesting thing about this particular technology is that you can carry your digital world with you wherever you go .
you can start using any surface , any wall around you , as an interface .
the camera is actually tracking all your gestures .
whatever you 're doing with your hands , it 's understanding that gesture .
and , actually , if you see , there are some color markers that in the beginning version we are using with it .
you can start painting on any wall .
you stop by a wall , and start painting on that wall .
but we are not only tracking one finger , here .
we are giving you the freedom of using all of both of your hands , so you can actually use both of your hands to zoom into or zoom out of a map just by pinching all present .
the camera is actually doing -- just , getting all the images -- is doing the edge recognition and also the color recognition and so many other small algorithms are going on inside .
so , technically , it 's a little bit complex , but it gives you an output which is more intuitive to use , in some sense .
but i 'm more excited that you can actually take it outside .
rather than getting your camera out of your pocket , you can just do the gesture of taking a photo and it takes a photo for you .
thank you .
and later i can find a wall , anywhere , and start browsing those photos or maybe , " ok , i want to modify this photo a little bit and send it as an email to a friend . "
so , we are looking for an era where computing will actually merge with the physical world .
and , of course , if you do n't have any surface , you can start using your palm for simple operations .
here , i 'm dialing a phone number just using my hand .
the camera is actually not only understanding your hand movements , but , interestingly , is also able to understand what objects you are holding in your hand .
what we 're doing here is actually -- for example , in this case , the book cover is matched with so many thousands , or maybe millions of books online , and checking out which book it is .
once it has that information , it finds out more reviews about that , or maybe new york times has a sound overview on that , so you can actually hear , on a physical book , a review as sound .
this was obama 's visit last week to mit .
so , i was seeing the live [ video ] of his talk , outside , on just a newspaper .
your newspaper will show you live weather information rather than having it updated -- like , you have to check your computer in order to do that , right ?
when i 'm going back , i can just use my boarding pass to check how much my flight has been delayed , because at that particular time , i 'm not feeling like opening my iphone , and checking out a particular icon .
and i think this technology will not only change the way -- yes .
it will change the way we interact with people , also , not only the physical world .
the fun part is , i 'm going to the boston metro , and playing a pong game inside the train on the ground , right ?
and i think the imagination is the only limit of what you can think of when this kind of technology merges with real life .
but many of you argue , actually , that all of our work is not only about physical objects .
we actually do lots of accounting and paper editing and all those kinds of things ; what about that ?
and many of you are excited about the next generation tablet computers to come out in the market .
so , rather than waiting for that , i actually made my own , just using a piece of paper .
so , what i did here is remove the camera -- all the webcam cameras have a microphone inside the camera .
i removed the microphone from that , and then just pinched that -- like i just made a clip out of the microphone -- and clipped that to a piece of paper , any paper that you found around .
so now the sound of the touch is getting me when exactly i 'm touching the paper .
but the camera is actually tracking where my fingers are moving .
you can of course watch movies .
and i am a wilderness explorer in tribe 54 . " ) and you can of course play games .
here , the camera is actually understanding how you 're holding the paper and playing a car - racing game .
many of you already must have thought , ok , you can browse .
yeah . of course you can browse to any websites or you can do all sorts of computing on a piece of paper wherever you need it .
so , more interestingly , i 'm interested in how we can take that in a more dynamic way .
when i come back to my desk i can just pinch that information back to my desktop so i can use my full - size computer .
and why only computers ? we can just play with papers .
paper world is interesting to play with .
here , i 'm taking a part of a document and putting over here a second part from a second place -- and i 'm actually modifying the information that i have over there .
yeah . and i say , " ok , this looks nice , let me print it out , that thing . "
so i now have a print - out of that thing , and now -- the workflow is more intuitive the way we used to do it maybe 20 years back , rather than now switching between these two worlds .
so , as a last thought , i think that integrating information to everyday objects will not only help us to get rid of the digital divide , the gap between these two worlds , but will also help us , in some way , to stay human , to be more connected to our physical world .
and it will actually help us not end up being machines sitting in front of other machines .
that 's all . thank you .
thank you .
so , pranav , first of all , you 're a genius .
this is incredible , really .
what are you doing with this ? is there a company being planned ?
or is this research forever , or what ?
pranav mistry : so , there are lots of companies -- actually sponsor companies of media lab -- interested in taking this ahead in one or another way .
companies like mobile phone operators want to take this in a different way than the ngos in india , [ who ] are thinking , " why can we only have ' sixth sense ' ?
we should have a ' fifth sense ' for missing - sense people who cannot speak .
this technology can be used for them to speak out in a different way with maybe a speaker system . "
what are your own plans ? are you staying at mit , or are you going to do something with this ?
pm : i 'm trying to make this more available to people so that anyone can develop their own sixthsense device , because the hardware is actually not that hard to manufacture or hard to make your own .
we will provide all the open source software for them , maybe starting next month .
open source ? wow .
are you going to come back to india with some of this , at some point ?
pm : yeah . yes , yes , of course .
what are your plans ? mit ?
india ? how are you going to split your time going forward ?
pm : there is a lot of energy here . lots of learning .
all of this work that you have seen is all about my learning in india .
and now , if you see , it 's more about the cost - effectiveness : this system costs you $300 compared to the $20,000 surface tables , or anything like that .
or maybe even the $2 mouse gesture system at that time was costing around $5,000 ?
so , we actually -- i showed that , at a conference , to president abdul kalam , at that time , and then he said , " ok , we should use this in bhabha atomic research centre for some use of that . "
so i 'm excited about how i can bring the technology to the masses rather than just keeping that technology in the lab environment .
based on the people we 've seen at ted , i would say you 're truly one of the two or three best inventors in the world right now .
it 's an honor to have you at ted .
thank you so much .
that 's fantastic .
raspyni brothers : juggle and jest 
 illustrious jugglers the raspyni brothers show off their uncanny balance , agility , coordination and willingness to sacrifice . now , if you 'll just stand completely still ...
dan holzman : please throw out the beanbag chairs . here we go .
barry friedman : there are all kinds of high - tech chairs here today , but this is really , i think , when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics , comfort , design , flexibility ...
dh : now obviously , this is not something we do on our regular show ; it 's something we just kind of learned for this , so we 're going to try . but can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs ?
bf : nice show , daniel , nice show . you are the man !
nice show . man , that was good !
dh : thank you .
bf : you know , sometimes when people do those , they go all the way down .
you actually just did that .
that 's the kind of extra effort that 's gotten us where we are today ...
dh : all right , let 's show them something special .
bf : ... without a macarthur grant .
yeah , look at this . you know , all kinds of different ...
ted is about invention , let 's be honest . right ? dh : yeah , it is .
bf : last night , michael moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on .
right now , dan 's going to show something he actually invented .
dh : a type of juggling i actually invented , right after i saw another juggler do it .
bf : shut up .
dh : and this is a small excerpt from a longer piece .
folks , this is shaker cup juggling . it 's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down .
bf : oh yeah , it does .
bf : oh , daniel .
dh : one more ?
perfect .
perfect .
bf : ok . dh : oh ! all right .
i 'm now pushing my luck : i 'm skipping right to six cups .
in order to do six cups , i must have perfect control over three with my right hand .
bf : also three with his left .
dh : perfect .
and now , all six cups . should i do it on the first try or should i miss once on purpose ?
bf : first try ? once on purpose ?
dh : how about if i try first and then decide ?
bf : good idea . let 's leave that . we 'll leave that door open .
dh : he 's looking at me .
bf : that 's all right , he does that . all right .
dh : oh ! it 's time for richard 's help .
oh , good . all right .
bf : you know , over the years , every year at the conference , it 's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with richard . and we 've always done something with the bullwhips in our act . it 's funny , for years i did it with daniel holding balloons .
and then we thought , " how stupid . "
dh : excuse me , could we work on the design of the microphone ?
bf : i think that 's the next session .
dh : next session ?
bf : yeah . and so we 've actually found a way to incorporate richard in this .
he actually assumes more of the danger in this .
dh : please stand up , richard .
dh : now richard , please ...
bf : ok , sorry .
dh : jesus christ . richard , please stand in front of me .
richard wurman : can i say something ?
bf : sure .
rw : in all past years i 've rehearsed with them , the things that have happened to me -- i have no idea what 's going to happen and that 's the truth .
dh : all right , please stand here in front ...
god , i hate that . put your hands out like this , please .
bf : no , come stay up with him .
dan used to actually hold them but now he 's got you for protection .
it 's kind of neat . ok .
dh : wow , you 've been working out .
bf : no , shut up !
having a little bit of richard time . that 's nice , that 's good .
ok , here we go .
have him hold your wrist so i can ...
dh : please hold my wrist , will you . bf : yeah , hold this a minute .
there you go .
ok .
ok , hold on .
rw : hmmm .
dh : first one .
bf : all those mid - year phone calls are coming back to me now , richard .
dh : so richard , what were we on the list ? like 1,020 ?
what happened there ?
bf : i think we were just outside .
dh : i do n't get it .
dh : sorry . bf : having some bad flashbacks .
rw : do you want me to hold you or not ? dh : do n't hold me that hard .
bf : here we go , i 'm taking it .
dh : one more , one more .
bf : we 've got one more we 're going to do .
rw : do i get to hold them ?
bf : you do n't want to hold these , trust me .
dh : could you spread your legs a little bit ?
bf : gloria , you want to do it ? it 's very cool .
one more try . man , i do n't want to get too close .
could you just push that ?
dh : wow ! boy !
bf : that 's cool . i always wanted to try that .
dh : let 's jump this way , though .
now , we risked richard 's life , it 's only fair we risk our own lives .
so to do that , i will juggle these three razor - sharp sickles .
and if that was n't enough , and judging by your response , it 's not ...
dh : wow ! bf : hoping for a little more build .
dh : true . barry ...
bf : i 'm going to run up behind him .
dh : leap over my shoulder .
bf : up and over his shoulders .
dh : grab the blades in mid - air , land right there in a pool of blood ...
still juggling .
impossible , you say ?
bf : incredible , you say ?
dh : why bother , you say ?
bf : here we go .
dh : just do it juggler boys , you say ?
bf : this guy , this guy invented air .
dh : i think so , that 's right .
even the pencil .
bf : he invented the pencil .
dh : all right , we 'll do this trick , but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect .
bf : ten years to perfect , which you 're about to see .
dh : it 's not that difficult , we just do n't like to practice that much .
bf : no , it 's a hassle . traveling too much .
actually , we will take a second to prove -- this could be fake -- that the blades are indeed razor - sharp .
dh : will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage ?
or a virgin for a sacrifice ?
bf : anything ?
dh : where 's gloria ?
bf : no , she 's got ... farm animal .
dh : do you have a small farm animal ?
just trying to play the odds . all right , here we go .
bf : over the top , over the top .
dh : how you feeling , barry ? you feeling all right ?
bf : yeah , it 's all right .
dh : do you feel everything 's ok ? the atmosphere , the ...
bf : yeah , a little sketchy .
dh : everything up here 's ok ?
bf : yeah .
dh : then here we go .
bf : this one 's a little ... who 's doing the lights ? could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs ? is that possible ? i can still see a little .
dh : and turn up the intensity ; we 're still pink in the middle .
we went too far .
bf : yeah , it 's too far . it 's too much of a visual .
the design of the body is a whole different thing .
dh : ready , barry ? bf : over the top .
dh : may we have our jumping music please ?
may we have it a bit louder ?
bf : they 're a good crew ! whoa !
dh : whoa , sorry . all right .
bf : we 're going on .
dh : all right , we 'll try again .
bf : all right ? oh my gosh . oh .
dh : all right , here we go . sorry about that .
bf : i thought i had the hard part . ok .
dh : whenever you 're ready .
bf : there we go !
all right , get up ! come on and dance ! dh : dance , come on . bf : come on and dance !
somebody dance ! come on !
wow , wow , ok , stop .
weird , no one dances . we 're two guys doing this .
i think that 's uncomfortable for everyone .
dh : the french judge ...
bf : one more quick thing .
dh : the french judge gives it a 5.2 .
bf : well , you know ...
dh : there you go ... bf : oh , yeah . another one coming in .
dh : tell them about our bio and stuff .
bf : yeah . in our bio , some of you may have read that we 've won two world juggling championships .
and believe it or not , you do n't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups .
we 're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition .
dh : that 's right .
bf : good .
dh : i know what you 're thinking : other juggling teams must really suck .
bf : juggling 's got a bad rap .
dh : but wait , barry , there 's still one more club lying there by my foot .
and look , it has a twin !
dh : there 's still one more by my foot .
what do you want me to do with it ?
bf : richard you tell him , it 's your last year .
dh : that 's a pretty good setup , richard .
bf : yeah , it 's a good setup . that 's a big setup .
dh : you can n't get any better than that . all right . what i will do : i will use my panther - like reflexes .
bf : nice .
dh : i got that -- to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel .
bf : nice .
dh : i touched it , barry . that should be enough .
bf : it 's progress , that 's the thing .
dh : how about that ? i 'll do it again .
oh wait , it 's on your side , barry .
and it 's awfully windy over there .
bf : it is , it 's weird . you would n't think it would affect half the stage , but it is . it 's weird .
watch this : what i 'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot .
dh : wow ! what a great trick , barry !
oh , look how it lies there .
oh , barry , is there nothing you can n't do ?
you are my hero . you 're my jim shea , jr .
too much olympics .
bf : from my foot , i 'll attempt to kick the seventh club . here we go .
dh : where , barry ? where ? tell us , barry .
[ unclear ] eagerly awaits your next syllable . what will it be ?
what gem of knowledge ?
what pearl of wisdom ?
do you want to buy a vowel , barry ?
is that your final answer ?
bf : all right ! you have to turn off the tv from time to time .
dh : i do , i do .
bf : from my foot , the kick up in the seven .
dh : we will juggle seven .
bf : from six to seven . dh : that 's a world 's record . bf : really ? dh : for us .
bf : yes .
dh : whenever you 're ready there , big guy .
put your tongue away , barry .
bf : oh , oh , whoa .
dh : please , please stay seated . stay seated . thank you .
because now , to make this twice as difficult , we 'll juggle the seven clubs back ...
bf : seven - club juggling .
dh : ... to back .
bf : thank you , that 's it .
bf : thank you guys !
dh : thank you very much !
kevin stone : the bio - future of joint replacement 
 arthritis and injury grind down millions of joints , but few get the best remedy -- real biological tissue . kevin stone shows a treatment that could sidestep the high costs and donor shortfall of human - to - human transplants with a novel use of animal tissue .
so let me just start with my story .
so i tore my knee joint meniscus cartilage playing soccer in college .
then i went on to tear my acl , the ligament in my knee , and then developed an arthritic knee .
and i 'm sure that many of you in this audience have that same story , and , by the way , i married a woman who has exactly the same story .
so this motivated me to become an orthopedic surgeon and to see if i could n't focus on solutions for those problems that would keep me playing sports and not limit me .
so with that , let me just show you a quick video to get you in the mood of what we 're trying to explain .
we are all aware of the risk of cancer , but there 's another disease that 's destined to affect even more of us : arthritis .
cancer may kill you , but when you look at the numbers , arthritis ruins more lives .
assuming you live a long life , there 's a 50 percent chance you 'll develop arthritis .
and it 's not just aging that causes arthritis .
common injuries can lead to decades of pain , until our joints quite literally grind to a halt .
desperate for a solution , we 've turned to engineering to design artificial components to replace our worn - out body parts , but in the midst of the modern buzz around the promises of a bionic body , should n't we stop and ask if there 's a better , more natural way ?
let 's consider an alternative path .
what if all the replacements our bodies need already exist in nature , or within our own stem cells ?
this is the field of biologic replacements , where we replace worn - out parts with new , natural ones .
kevin stone : and so , the mission is : how do i treat these things biologically ?
and let 's talk about both what i did for my wife , and what i 've done for hundreds of other patients .
first thing for my wife , and the most common thing i hear from my patients , particularly in the 40- to 80 - year - old age group , 70 - year - old age group , is they come in and say , " hey , doc , is n't there just a shock absorber you can put in my knee ?
i 'm not ready for joint replacement . "
and so for her , i put in a human meniscus allograft donor right into that [ knee ] joint space .
and [ the allograft ] replaces [ the missing meniscus ] .
and then for that unstable ligament , we put in a human donor ligament to stabilize the knee .
and then for the damaged arthritis on the surface , we did a stem cell paste graft , which we designed in 1991 , to regrow that articular cartilage surface and give it back a smooth surface there .
so here 's my wife 's bad knee on the left , and her just hiking now four months later in aspen , and doing well .
and it works , not just for my wife , but certainly for other patients .
the girl on the video , jen hudak , just won the superpipe in aspen just nine months after having destroyed her knee , as you see in the other image -- and having a paste graft to that knee .
and so we can regrow these surfaces biologically .
so with all this success , why is n't that good enough , you might ask .
well the reason is because there 's not enough donor cycles .
there 's not enough young , healthy people falling off their motorcycle and donating that tissue to us .
and the tissue 's very expensive .
and so that 's not going to be a solution that 's going to get us global with biologic tissue .
but the solution is animal tissue because it 's plentiful , it 's cheap , you can get it from young , healthy tissues , but the barrier is immunology .
and the specific barrier is a specific epitope called the galactosyl , or gal epitope .
so if we 're going to transplant animal tissues to people , we have to figure out a way to get rid of that epitope .
so my story in working with animal tissues starts in 1984 .
and i started first with cow achilles tendon , where we would take the cow achilles tendon , which is type - i collagen , strip it of its antigens by degrading it with an acid and detergent wash and forming it into a regeneration template .
we would then take that regeneration template and insert it into the missing meniscus cartilage to regrow that in a patient 's knee .
we 've now done that procedure , and it 's been done worldwide in over 4,000 cases , so it 's an fda - approved and worldwide - accepted way to regrow the meniscus .
and that 's great when i can degrade the tissue .
but what happens for your ligament when i need an intact ligament ?
i can n't grind it up in a blender .
so in that case , i have to design -- and we designed with uri galili and tom turek -- an enzyme wash to wash away , or strip , those galactosyl epitopes with a specific enzyme .
and we call that a " gal stripping " technique .
what we do is humanize the tissue .
it 's by gal stripping that tissue we humanize it , and then we can put it back into a patient 's knee .
and we 've done that . now we 've taken pig ligament -- young , healthy , big tissue , put it into 10 patients in an fda - approved trial -- and then one of our patients went on to have three canadian masters downhill championships -- on his " pig - lig , " as he calls it . so we know it can work .
and there 's a wide clinical trial of this tissue now pending .
so what about the next step ?
what about getting to a total biologic knee replacement , not just the parts ?
how are we going to revolutionize artificial joint replacement ?
well here 's how we 're going to do it .
so what we 're going to do is take an articular cartilage from a young , healthy pig , strip it of its antigens , load it with your stem cells , then put it back on to that arthritic surface in your knee , tack it on there , have you heal that surface and then create a new biologic surface for your knee .
so that 's our biologic approach right now .
we 're going to rebuild your knee with the parts .
we 're going to resurface it with a completely new surface .
but we have other advantages from the animal kingdom .
there 's a benefit of 400 million years of ambulation .
we can harness those benefits .
we can use thicker , younger , better tissues than you might have injured in your knee , or that you might have when you 're 40 , 50 or 60 .
we can do it as an outpatient procedure .
we can strip that tissue very economically , and so this is how we can get biologic knee replacement to go global .
and so welcome to super biologics .
it 's not hardware .
it 's not software .
it 's bioware .
it 's version 2.0 of you .
and so with that , coming to a -- coming to an operating theater near you soon , i believe .
thank you very much .
marcel dicke : why not eat insects ?
 marcel dicke makes an appetizing case for adding insects to everyone 's diet . his message to squeamish chefs and foodies : delicacies like locusts and caterpillars compete with meat in flavor , nutrition and eco - friendliness .
okay , i 'm going to show you again something about our diets .
and i would like to know what the audience is , and so who of you ever ate insects ?
that 's quite a lot .
but still , you 're not representing the overall population of the earth .
because there 's 80 percent out there that really eats insects .
but this is quite good .
why not eat insects ? well first , what are insects ?
insects are animals that walk around on six legs .
and here you see just a selection .
there 's six million species of insects on this planet , six million species .
there 's a few hundreds of mammals -- six million species of insects .
in fact , if we count all the individual organisms , we would come at much larger numbers .
in fact , of all animals on earth , of all animal species , 80 percent walks on six legs .
but if we would count all the individuals , and we take an average weight of them , it would amount to something like 200 to 2,000 kilograms for each of you and me on earth .
that means that in terms of biomass , insects are more abundant than we are , and we 're not on a planet of men , but we 're on a planet of insects .
insects are not only there in nature , but they also are involved in our economy , usually without us knowing .
there was an estimation , a conservative estimation , a couple of years ago that the u.s. economy benefited by 57 billion dollars per year .
it 's a number -- very large -- a contribution to the economy of the united states for free .
and so i looked up what the economy was paying for the war in iraq in the same year .
it was 80 billion u.s. dollars .
well we know that that was not a cheap war .
so insects , just for free , contribute to the economy of the united states with about the same order of magnitude , just for free , without everyone knowing .
and not only in the states , but in any country , in any economy .
what do they do ?
they remove dung , they pollinate our crops .
a third of all the fruits that we eat are all a result of insects taking care of the reproduction of plants .
they control pests , and they 're food for animals .
they 're at the start of food chains .
small animals eat insects .
even larger animals eat insects .
but the small animals that eat insects are being eaten by larger animals , still larger animals .
and at the end of the food chain , we are eating them as well .
there 's quite a lot of people that are eating insects .
and here you see me in a small , provincial town in china , lijiang -- about two million inhabitants .
if you go out for dinner , like in a fish restaurant , where you can select which fish you want to eat , you can select which insects you would like to eat .
and they prepare it in a wonderful way .
and here you see me enjoying a meal with caterpillars , locusts , bee pupae -- delicacies .
and you can eat something new everyday .
there 's more than 1,000 species of insects that are being eaten all around the globe .
that 's quite a bit more than just a few mammals that we 're eating , like a cow or a pig or a sheep .
more than 1,000 species -- an enormous variety .
and now you may think , okay , in this provincial town in china they 're doing that , but not us .
well we 've seen already that quite some of you already ate insects maybe occasionally , but i can tell you that every one of you is eating insects , without any exception .
you 're eating at least 500 grams per year .
what are you eating ?
tomato soup , peanut butter , chocolate , noodles -- any processed food that you 're eating contains insects , because insects are here all around us , and when they 're out there in nature they 're also in our crops .
some fruits get some insect damage .
those are the fruits , if they 're tomato , that go to the tomato soup .
if they do n't have any damage , they go to the grocery .
and that 's your view of a tomato .
but there 's tomatoes that end up in a soup , and as long as they meet the requirements of the food agency , there can be all kinds of things in there , no problem .
in fact , why would we put these balls in the soup , there 's meat in there anyway ?
in fact , all our processed foods contain more proteins than we would be aware of .
so anything is a good protein source already .
now you may say , " okay , so we 're eating 500 grams just by accident . "
we 're even doing this on purpose .
in a lot of food items that we have -- i have only two items here on the slide -- pink cookies or surimi sticks or , if you like , campari -- a lot of our food products that are of a red color are dyed with a natural dye .
the surimi sticks [ of ] crabmeat , or is being sold as crab meat , is white fish that 's being dyed with cochineal .
cochineal is a product of an insect that lives off these cacti .
it 's being produced in large amounts , 150 to 180 metric tons per year in the canary islands in peru , and it 's big business .
one gram of cochineal costs about 30 euros .
one gram of gold is 30 euros .
so it 's a very precious thing that we 're using to dye our foods .
now the situation in the world is going to change for you and me , for everyone on this earth .
the human population is growing very rapidly and is growing exponentially .
where , at the moment , we have something between six and seven billion people , it will grow to about nine billion in 2050 .
that means that we have a lot more mouths to feed , and this is something that worries more and more people .
there was an fao conference last october that was completely devoted to this .
how are we going to feed this world ?
and if you look at the figures up there , it says that we have a third more mouths to feed , but we need an agricultural production increase of 70 percent .
and that 's especially because this world population is increasing , and it 's increasing , not only in numbers , but we 're also getting wealthier , and anyone that gets wealthier starts to eat more and also starts to eat more meat .
and meat , in fact , is something that costs a lot of our agricultural production .
our diet consists , [ in ] some part , of animal proteins , and at the moment , most of us here get it from livestock , from fish , from game .
and we eat quite a lot of it .
in the developed world it 's on average 80 kilograms per person per year , which goes up to 120 in the united states and a bit lower in some other countries , but on average 80 kilograms per person per year .
in the developing world it 's much lower .
it 's 25 kilograms per person per year .
but it 's increasing enormously .
in china in the last 20 years , it increased from 20 to 50 , and it 's still increasing .
so if a third of the world population is going to increase its meat consumption from 25 to 80 on average , and a third of the world population is living in china and in india , we 're having an enormous demand on meat .
and of course , we are not there to say that 's only for us , it 's not for them .
they have the same share that we have .
now to start with , i should say that we are eating way too much meat in the western world .
we could do with much , much less -- and i know , i 've been a vegetarian for a long time , and you can easily do without anything .
you 'll get proteins in any kind of food anyway .
but then there 's a lot of problems that come with meat production , and we 're being faced with that more and more often .
the first problem that we 're facing is human health .
pigs are quite like us .
they 're even models in medicine , and we can even transplant organs from a pig to a human .
that means that pigs also share diseases with us .
and a pig disease , a pig virus , and a human virus can both proliferate , and because of their kind of reproduction , they can combine and produce a new virus .
this has happened in the netherlands in the 1990s during the classical swine fever outbreak .
you get a new disease that can be deadly .
we eat insects -- they 're so distantly related from us that this does n't happen .
so that 's one point for insects .
and there 's the conversion factor .
you take 10 kilograms of feed , you can get one kilogram of beef , but you can get nine kilograms of locust meat .
so if you would be an entrepreneur , what would you do ?
with 10 kilograms of input , you can get either one or nine kg . of output .
so far we 're taking the one , or up to five kilograms of output .
we 're not taking the bonus yet .
we 're not taking the nine kilograms of output yet .
so that 's two points for insects .
and there 's the environment .
if we take 10 kilograms of food -- and it results in one kilogram of beef , the other nine kilograms are waste , and a lot of that is manure .
if you produce insects , you have less manure per kilogram of meat that you produce .
so less waste .
furthermore , per kilogram of manure , you have much , much less ammonia and fewer greenhouse gases when you have insect manure than when you have cow manure .
so you have less waste , and the waste that you have is not as environmental malign as it is with cow dung .
so that 's three points for insects .
now there 's a big " if , " of course , and it is if insects produce meat that is of good quality .
well there have been all kinds of analyses and in terms of protein , or fat , or vitamins , it 's very good .
in fact , it 's comparable to anything we eat as meat at the moment .
and even in terms of calories , it is very good .
one kilogram of grasshoppers has the same amount of calories as 10 hot dogs , or six big macs .
so that 's four points for insects .
i can go on , and i could make many more points for insects , but time does n't allow this .
so the question is , why not eat insects ?
i gave you at least four arguments in favor .
we 'll have to .
even if you do n't like it , you 'll have to get used to this because at the moment , 70 percent of all our agricultural land is being used to produce livestock .
that 's not only the land where the livestock is walking and feeding , but it 's also other areas where the feed is being produced and being transported .
we can increase it a bit at the expense of rainforests , but there 's a limitation very soon .
and if you remember that we need to increase agricultural production by 70 percent , we 're not going to make it that way .
we could much better change from meat , from beef , to insects .
and then 80 percent of the world already eats insects , so we are just a minority -- in a country like the u.k. , the usa , the netherlands , anywhere .
on the left - hand side , you see a market in laos where they have abundantly present all kinds of insects that you choose for dinner for the night .
on the right - hand side you see a grasshopper .
so people there are eating them , not because they 're hungry , but because they think it 's a delicacy .
it 's just very good food .
you can vary enormously .
it has many benefits .
in fact , we have delicacy that 's very much like this grasshopper : shrimps , a delicacy being sold at a high price .
who would n't like to eat a shrimp ?
there are a few people who do n't like shrimp , but shrimp , or crabs , or crayfish , are very closely related .
they are delicacies .
in fact , a locust is a " shrimp " of the land , and it would make very good into our diet .
so why are we not eating insects yet ?
well that 's just a matter of mindset .
we 're not used to it , and we see insects as these organisms that are very different from us .
that 's why we 're changing the perception of insects .
and i 'm working very hard with my colleague , arnold van huis , in telling people what insects are , what magnificent things they are , what magnificent jobs they do in nature .
and in fact , without insects , we would not be here in this room , because if the insects die out , we will soon die out as well .
if we die out , the insects will continue very happily .
so we have to get used to the idea of eating insects .
and some might think , well they 're not yet available .
well they are .
there are entrepreneurs in the netherlands that produce them , and one of them is here in the audience , marian peeters , who 's in the picture .
i predict that later this year , you 'll get them in the supermarkets -- not visible , but as animal protein in the food .
and maybe by 2020 , you 'll buy them just knowing that this is an insect that you 're going to eat .
and they 're being made in the most wonderful ways .
a dutch chocolate maker .
so there 's even a lot of design to it .
well in the netherlands , we have an innovative minister of agriculture , and she puts the insects on the menu in her restaurant in her ministry .
and when she got all the ministers of agriculture of the e.u.
over to the hague recently , she went to a high - class restaurant , and they ate insects all together .
it 's not something that is a hobby of mine .
it 's really taken off the ground .
so why not eat insects ?
you should try it yourself .
a couple of years ago , we had 1,750 people all together in a square in wageningen town , and they ate insects at the same moment , and this was still big , big news .
i think soon it will not be big news anymore when we all eat insects , because it 's just a normal way of doing .
so you can try it yourself today , and i would say , enjoy .
and i 'm going to show to bruno some first tries , and he can have the first bite .
look at them first . look at them first .
marcel dicke : it 's all protein .
that 's exactly the same [ one ] you saw in the video actually .
and it looks delicious .
they just make it [ with ] nuts or something .
md : thank you .
lawrence lessig : re-examining the remix 
 former " young republican " larry lessig talks about what democrats can learn about copyright from their opposite party , considered more conservative . a surprising lens on remix culture .
i want to talk about what we learn from conservatives .
and i 'm at a stage in life where i 'm yearning for my old days , so i want to confess to you that when i was a kid , indeed , i was a conservative .
i was a young republican , a teenage republican , a leader in the teenage republicans .
indeed , i was the youngest member of any delegation in the 1980 convention that elected ronald reagan to be the republican nominee for president .
now , i know what you 're thinking .
you 're thinking , " that 's not what the internets say . "
you 're thinking , " wikipedia does n't say this fact . "
and indeed , this is just one of the examples of the junk that flows across the tubes in these internets here .
wikipedia reports that this guy , this former congressman from erie , pennsylvania was , at the age of 20 , one of the youngest people at the republican national convention , but it 's just not true .
indeed , it drives me so nuts , let me just change this little fact here .
all right . okay , so ... perfect .
perfect .
okay , speaker lawrence lessig , right .
okay .
finally , truth will be brought here .
okay , see ? it 's done . it 's almost done . here we go .
" ... youngest republican , " okay , we 're finished .
that 's it . please save this .
great , here we go .
and ... wikipedia is fixed , finally .
okay , but no , this is really besides the point .
but the thing i want you to think about when we think about conservatives -- not so much this issue of the 1980 convention -- the thing to think about is this : they go to church .
now , you know , i mean , a lot of people go to church .
i 'm not talking about that only conservatives go to church .
and i 'm not talking about the god thing .
i do n't want to get into that , you know ; that 's not my point .
they go to church , by which i mean , they do lots of things for free for each other .
they hold potluck dinners .
indeed , they sell books about potluck dinners .
they serve food to poor people .
they share , they give , they give away for free .
and it 's the very same people leading wall street firms who , on sundays , show up and share .
and not only food , right .
these very same people are strong believers , in lots of contexts , in the limits on the markets .
they are in many important places against markets .
indeed , they , like all of us , celebrate this kind of relationship .
but they 're very keen that we do n't let money drop into that relationship , else it turns into something like this .
they want to regulate us , those conservatives , to stop us from allowing the market to spread in those places .
because they understand : there are places for the market and places where the market should not exist , where we should be free to enjoy the fellowship of others .
they recognize : both of these things have to live together .
and the second great thing about conservatives : they get ecology .
right , it was the first great republican president of the 20th century who taught us about environmental thinking -- teddy roosevelt .
they first taught us about ecology in the context of natural resources .
and then they began to teach us in the context of innovation , economics .
they understand , in that context , " free . " they understand " free " is an important essential part of the cultural ecology as well .
that 's the thing i want you to think about them .
now , i know you do n't believe me , really , here .
so here 's exhibit number one .
i want to share with you my latest hero , julian sanchez , a libertarian who works at the , for many people , " evil " cato institute .
okay , so julian made this video .
he 's a terrible producer of videos , but it 's great content , so i 'm going to give you a little bit of it .
so here he is beginning .
julian sanchez : i 'm going to make an observation about the way remix culture seems to be evolving ...
larry lessig : so what he does is he begins to tell us about these three videos .
this is this fantastic brat pack remix set to lisztomania .
which , of course , spread virally .
hugely successful .
and then some people from brooklyn saw it .
they decided they wanted to do the same .
and then , of course , people from san fransisco saw it .
and san franciscans thought they had to do the same as well .
and so they 're beautiful , but this libertarian has some important lessons he wants us to learn from this .
here 's lesson number one .
js : there 's obviously also something really deeply great about this .
they are acting in the sense that they 're emulating the original mashup .
and the guy who shot it obviously has a strong eye and some experience with video editing .
but this is also basically just a group of friends having an authentic social moment and screwing around together .
it should feel familiar and kind of resonate for anyone who 's had a sing - a - long or a dance party with a group of good friends .
ll : or ...
js : so that 's importantly different from the earlier videos we looked at because here , remix is n't just about an individual doing something alone in his basement ; it becomes an act of social creativity .
and it 's not just that it yields a different kind of product at the end , it 's that potentially it changes the way that we relate to each other .
all of our normal social interactions become a kind of invitation to this sort of collective expression .
it 's our real social lives themselves that are transmuted into art .
ll : and so then , what this libertarian draws from these two points ...
js : one remix is about individuals using our shared culture as a kind of language to communicate something to an audience .
stage two , social remix , is really about using it to mediate people 's relationships to each other .
first , within each video , the brat pack characters are used as a kind of template for performing the social reality of each group .
but there 's also a dialogue between the videos , where , once the basic structure is established , it becomes a kind of platform for articulating the similarities and differences between the groups ' social and physical worlds .
ll : and then , here 's for me , the critical key to what julian has to say ...
js : copyright policy is n't just about how to incentivize the production of a certain kind of artistic commodity ; it 's about what level of control we 're going to permit to be exercised over our social realities -- social realities that are now inevitably permeated by pop culture .
i think it 's important that we keep these two different kinds of public goods in mind .
if we 're only focused on how to maximize the supply of one , i think we risk suppressing this different and richer and , in some ways , maybe even more important one .
ll : right . bingo . point .
freedom needs this opportunity to both have the commercial success of the great commercial works and the opportunity to build this different kind of culture .
and for that to happen , you need ideas like fair use to be central and protected , to enable this kind of innovation , as this libertarian tells us , between these two creative cultures , a commercial and a sharing culture .
the point is they , he , here , gets that culture .
now , my concern is , we dems , too often , not so much .
all right , take for example this great company .
in the good old days when this republican ran that company , their greatest work was work that built on the past , right .
all of the great disney works were works that took works that were in the public domain and remixed them , or waited until they entered the public domain to remix them , to celebrate this add - on remix creativity .
indeed , mickey mouse himself , of course , as " steamboat willie , " is a remix of the then , very dominant , very popular " steamboat bill " by buster keaton .
this man was a remixer extraordinaire .
he is the celebration and ideal of exactly this kind of creativity .
but then the company passes through this dark stage to this democrat .
wildly different .
this is the mastermind behind the eventual passage of what we call the sonny bono copyright term extension act , extending the term of existing copyrights by 20 years , so that no one could do to disney what disney did to the brothers grimm .
now , when we tried to challenge this , going to the supreme court , getting the supreme court , the bunch of conservatives there -- if we could get them to wake up to this -- to strike it down , we had the assistance of nobel prize winners including this right - wing nobel prize winner , milton friedman , who said he would join our brief only if the word " no brainer " was in the brief somewhere .
but apparently , no brains existed in this place when democrats passed and signed this bill into law .
now , tiny little quibble of a footnote : sonny bono , you might say , was a republican , but i do n't buy it .
this guy is no republican .
okay , for a second example , think about this cultural hero , icon on the left , creator of this character .
look at the site that he built : " star wars " mashups , inviting people to come and use their creative energy to produce a new generation of attention towards this extraordinarily important cultural icon .
read the license .
the license for these remixers assigns all of the rights to the remix back to lucas .
the mashup is owned by lucas .
indeed , anything you add to the mashup , music you might add , lucas has a worldwide perpetual right to exploit that for free .
there is no creator here to be recognized .
the creator does n't have any rights .
the creator is a sharecropper in this story .
and we should remember who employed the sharecroppers : the democrats , right ?
so the point is the republicans here recognize that there 's a certain need of ownership , a respect for ownership , the respect we should give the creator , the remixer , the owner , the property owner , the copyright owner of this extraordinarily powerful stuff , and not a generation of sharecroppers .
now , i think there are lessons we should learn here , lessons about openness .
our lives are sharing activities , at least in part .
even for the head of goldman sachs , at least in part .
and for that sharing activity to happen , we have to have well - protected spaces of fair use .
that 's number one . number two : this ecology of sharing needs freedom within which to create .
freedom , which means without permission from anyone , the ability to create .
and number three : we need to respect the creator , the creator of these remixes through rights that are directly tied to them .
now , this explains the right - wing nonprofit creative commons .
actually , it 's not a right - wing nonprofit , but of course -- let me just tie it here -- the creative commons , which is offering authors this simple way to mark their content with the freedoms they intended to carry .
so that we go from a " all rights reserved " world to a " some rights reserved " world so that people can know the freedoms they have attached to the content , building and creating on the basis of this creative copyrighted work .
these tools that we built enable this sharing in parts through licenses that make it clear and a freedom to create without requiring permission first because the permission has already been granted and a respect for the creator because it builds upon a copyright the creator has licensed freely .
and it explains the vast right - wing conspiracy that 's obviously developed around these licenses , as now more than 350 million digital objects are out there , licensed freely in this way .
now that picture of an ecology of creativity , the picture of an ecology of balanced creativity , is that the ecology of creativity we have right now ?
well , as you all know , not many of us believe we do .
i tripped on the reality of this ecology of creativity just last week .
i created a video which was based on a wireside chat that i 'd given , and i uploaded it to youtube .
i then got this email from youtube weirdly notifying me that there was content in that owned by the mysterious wmg that matched their content id .
so i did n't think much about it .
and then on twitter , somebody said to me , " your talk on youtube was dmca 'd . was that your purpose ? "
imagining that i had this deep conspiracy to reveal the obvious flaws in the dmca .
i answered , " no . " i did n't even think about it .
but then i went to the site and all of the audio in my site had been silenced .
my whole 45 - minute video had been silenced because there were snippets in that video , a video about fair use , that included warner music group music .
now , interestingly , they still sold ads for that music , if you played the silent video .
you could still buy the music , but you could n't hear anything because it had been silenced .
so i did what the current regime says i must do to be free to use youtube to talk about fair use .
i went to this site , and i had to answer these questions .
and then in an extraordinarily bart simpson - like , juvenile way you 've actually got to type out these words and get them right to reassert your freedom to speak .
and i felt like i was in third grade again .
" i will not put tacks on the teacher 's chair .
i will not put tacks on the teacher 's chair . "
this is absurd .
it is outrageous .
it is an extraordinary perversion of the system of freedom we should be encouraging .
and the question i ask you is : who 's fighting it ?
well , interestingly , in the last presidential election , who was the number one , active opponent of this system of regulation in online speech ?
john mccain .
letter after letter attacking youtube 's refusal to be more respectful of fair use with their extraordinary notice and take down system , that led his campaign so many times to be thrown off the internet .
now , that was the story of me then , my good old days of right - wing lunacy .
let me come back to now , now when i 'm a little leftist -- i 'm certainly left - handed , so at least a lefty -- and i wonder , can we on the left expect to build this ecology of freedom , now , in a world where we know the extraordinarily powerful influences against it , where even icons of the left like this entertain and push bills that would effectively ban the requirement of open access for government - funded research ?
the president , who has supported a process that secretly negotiates agreements , which effectively lock us into the insane system of dmca that we have adopted and likely lock us down a path of three strikes , you 're out that , of course , the rest of the world are increasingly adopting .
not a single example of reform has been produced yet .
and we 're not going to see this change in this system anytime soon .
so here 's the lessons of openness that i think we need to learn .
openness is a commitment to a certain set of values .
we need to speak of those values .
the value of freedom . it 's a value of community .
it 's a value of the limits in regulation .
it 's a value respecting the creator .
now , if we can learn those values from at least some influences on the right , if we can take them and incorporate them , maybe we could do a little trade .
we learn those values on the left , and maybe they 'll do health care or global warming legislation or something in the right .
anyway , please join me in teaching these values .
thank you very much .
cameron sinclair : the refugees of boom - and - bust 
 at tedglobal u , cameron sinclair shows the unreported cost of real estate megaprojects gone bust : thousands of migrant construction laborers left stranded and penniless . to his fellow architects , he says there is only one ethical response .
a few years ago , my eyes were opened to the dark side of the construction industry .
in 2006 , young qatari students took me to go and see the migrant worker camps .
and since then i 've followed the unfolding issue of worker rights .
in the last six months , more than 300 skyscrapers in the uae have been put on hold or canceled .
behind the headlines that lay behind these buildings is the fate of the often - indentured construction worker .
1.1 million of them .
mainly indian , pakistani , sri lankan and nepalese , these laborers risk everything to make money for their families back home .
they pay a middle - man thousands of dollars to be there .
and when they arrive , they find themselves in labor camps with no water , no air conditioning , and their passports taken away .
while it 's easy to point the finger at local officials and higher authorities , 99 percent of these people are hired by the private sector , and so therefore we 're equally , if not more , accountable .
groups like buildsafe uae have emerged , but the numbers are simply overwhelming .
in august 2008 , uae public officials noted that 40 percent of the country 's 1,098 labor camps had violated minimum health and fire safety regulations .
and last summer , more than 10,000 workers protested for the non-payment of wages , for the poor quality of food , and inadequate housing .
and then the financial collapse happened .
when the contractors have gone bust , as they 've been overleveraged like everyone else , the difference is everything goes missing , documentation , passports , and tickets home for these workers .
currently , right now , thousands of workers are abandoned .
there is no way back home .
and there is no way , and no proof of arrival .
these are the boom - and - bust refugees .
the question is , as a building professional , as an architect , an engineer , as a developer , if you know this is going on , as we go to the sights every single week , are you complacent or complicit in the human rights violations ?
so let 's forget your environmental footprint .
let 's think about your ethical footprint .
what good is it to build a zero - carbon , energy efficient complex , when the labor producing this architectural gem is unethical at best ?
now , recently i 've been told i 've been taking the high road .
but , quite frankly , on this issue , there is no other road .
so let 's not forget who is really paying the price of this financial collapse .
and that as we worry about our next job in the office , the next design that we can get , to keep our workers .
let 's not forget these men , who are truly dying to work .
thank you .
tyler dewitt : hey science teachers -- make it fun 
 high school science teacher tyler dewitt was ecstatic about a lesson plan on bacteria -- and devastated when his students hated it . the problem was the textbook : it was impossible to understand . he delivers a rousing call for science teachers to ditch the jargon and extreme precision , and instead make science sing through stories and demonstrations . 
let me tell you a story .
it 's my first year as a new high school science teacher , and i 'm so eager .
i 'm so excited , i 'm pouring myself into my lesson plans .
but i 'm slowly coming to this horrifying realization that my students just might not be learning anything .
this happens one day : i 'd just assigned my class to read this textbook chapter about my favorite subject in all of biology : viruses and how they attack .
and so i 'm so excited to discuss this with them , and i come in and i say , " can somebody please explain the main ideas and why this is so cool ? "
there 's silence .
finally , my favorite student , she looks me straight in the eye , and she says , " the reading sucked . "
and then she clarified . she said , " you know what , i do n't mean that it sucks . it means that i did n't understand a word of it .
it 's boring . um , who cares , and it sucks . "
these sympathetic smiles spread all throughout the room now , and i realize that all of my other students are in the same boat , that maybe they took notes or they memorized definitions from the textbook , but not one of them really understood the main ideas .
not one of them can tell me why this stuff is so cool , why it 's so important .
i 'm totally clueless .
i have no idea what to do next .
so the only thing i can think of is say , " listen . let me tell you a story .
the main characters in the story are bacteria and viruses .
these guys are blown up a couple million times .
the real bacteria and viruses are so small we can n't see them without a microscope , and you guys might know bacteria and viruses because they both make us sick .
but what a lot of people do n't know is that viruses can also make bacteria sick . "
now , the story that i start telling my kids , it starts out like a horror story .
once upon a time there 's this happy little bacterium .
do n't get too attached to him .
maybe he 's floating around in your stomach or in some spoiled food somewhere , and all of a sudden he starts to not feel so good .
maybe he ate something bad for lunch , and then things get really horrible , as his skin rips apart , and he sees a virus coming out from his insides .
and then it gets horrible when he bursts open and an army of viruses floods out from his insides .
if -- ouch is right ! -- if you see this , and you 're a bacterium , this is like your worst nightmare .
but if you 're a virus and you see this , you cross those little legs of yours and you think , " we rock . "
because it took a lot of crafty work to infect this bacterium .
here 's what had to happen .
a virus grabbed onto a bacterium and it slipped its dna into it .
the next thing is , that virus dna made stuff that chopped up the bacteria dna .
and now that we 've gotten rid of the bacteria dna , the virus dna takes control of the cell and it tells it to start making more viruses .
because , you see , dna is like a blueprint that tells living things what to make .
so this is kind of like going into a car factory and replacing the blueprints with blueprints for killer robots .
the workers still come the next day , they do their job , but they 're following different instructions .
so replacing the bacteria dna with virus dna turns the bacteria into a factory for making viruses -- that is , until it 's so filled with viruses that it bursts .
but that 's not the only way that viruses infect bacteria .
some are much more crafty .
when a secret agent virus infects a bacterium , they do a little espionage .
here , this cloaked , secret agent virus is slipping his dna into the bacterial cell , but here 's the kicker : it does n't do anything harmful -- not at first .
instead , it silently slips into the bacteria 's own dna , and it just stays there like a terrorist sleeper cell , waiting for instructions .
and what 's interesting about this is now whenever this bacteria has babies , the babies also have the virus dna in them .
so now we have a whole extended bacteria family , filled with virus sleeper cells .
they 're just happily living together until a signal happens and -- bam ! -- all of the dna pops out .
it takes control of these cells , turns them into virus - making factories , and they all burst , a huge , extended bacteria family , all dying with viruses spilling out of their guts , the viruses taking over the bacterium .
so now you understand how viruses can attack cells .
there are two ways : on the left is what we call the lytic way , where the viruses go right in and take over the cells .
on the [ right ] is the lysogenic way that uses secret agent viruses .
so this stuff is not that hard , right ?
and now all of you understand it .
but if you 've graduated from high school , i can almost guarantee you 've seen this information before .
but i bet it was presented in a way that it did n't exactly stick in your mind .
so when my students were first learning this , why did they hate it so much ?
well , there were a couple of reasons .
first of all , i can guarantee you that their textbooks did n't have secret agent viruses , and they did n't have horror stories .
you know , in the communication of science there is this obsession with seriousness .
it kills me . i 'm not kidding .
i used to work for an educational publisher , and as a writer , i was always told never to use stories or fun , engaging language , because then my work might not be viewed as " serious " and " scientific . "
right ? i mean , because god forbid somebody have fun when they 're learning science .
so we have this field of science that 's all about slime , and color changes . check this out .
and then we have , of course , as any good scientist has to have , explosions !
but if a textbook seems too much fun , it 's somehow unscientific .
now another problem was that the language in their textbook was truly incomprehensible .
if we want to summarize that story that i told you earlier , we could start by saying something like , " these viruses make copies of themselves by slipping their dna into a bacterium . "
the way this showed up in the textbook , it looked like this : " bacteriophage replication is initiated through the introduction of viral nucleic acid into a bacterium . "
that 's great , perfect for 13 - year - olds .
but here 's the thing . there are plenty of people in science education who would look at this and say there 's no way that we could ever give that to students , because it contains some language that is n't completely accurate .
for example , i told you that viruses have dna .
well , a very tiny fraction of them do n't .
they have something called rna instead .
so a professional science writer would circle that and say , " that has to go .
we have to change it to something much more technical . "
and after a team of professional science editors went over this really simple explanation , they 'd find fault with almost every word i 've used , and they 'd have to change anything that was n't serious enough , and they 'd have to change everything that was n't 100 percent perfect .
then it would be accurate , but it would be completely impossible to understand .
this is horrifying .
you know , i keep talking about this idea of telling a story , and it 's like science communication has taken on this idea of what i call the tyranny of precision , where you can n't just tell a story .
it 's like science has become that horrible storyteller that we all know , who gives us all the details nobody cares about , where you 're like , " oh , i met my friend for lunch the other day , and she was wearing these ugly jeans .
i mean , they were n't really jeans , they were more kind of , like , leggings , but , like , i guess they 're actually kind of more like jeggings , like , but i think  " and you 're just like , " oh my god .
what is the point ? "
or even worse , science education is becoming like that guy who always says , " actually . "
right ? you want to be like , " oh , dude , we had to get up in the middle of the night and drive a hundred miles in total darkness . "
and that guy 's like , " actually , it was 87.3 miles . "
and you 're like , " actually , shut up !
i 'm just trying to tell a story . "
because good storytelling is all about emotional connection .
we have to convince our audience that what we 're talking about matters .
but just as important is knowing which details we should leave out so that the main point still comes across .
i 'm reminded of what the architect mies van der rohe said , and i paraphrase , when he said that sometimes you have to lie in order to tell the truth .
i think this sentiment is particularly relevant to science education .
now , finally , i am often so disappointed when people think that i 'm advocating a dumbing down of science .
that 's not true at all .
i 'm currently a ph.d . student at mit , and i absolutely understand the importance of detailed , specific scientific communication between experts , but not when we 're trying to teach 13 - year - olds .
if a young learner thinks that all viruses have dna , that 's not going to ruin their chances of success in science .
but if a young learner can n't understand anything in science and learns to hate it because it all sounds like this , that will ruin their chances of success .
this needs to stop , and i wish that the change could come from the institutions at the top that are perpetuating these problems , and i beg them , i beseech them to just stop it .
but i think that 's unlikely .
so we are so lucky that we have resources like the internet , where we can circumvent these institutions from the bottom up .
there 's a growing number of online resources that are dedicated to just explaining science in simple , understandable ways .
i dream of a wikipedia - like website that would explain any scientific concept you can think of in simple language any middle schooler can understand .
and i myself spend most of my free time making these science videos that i put on youtube .
i explain chemical equilibrium using analogies to awkward middle school dances , and i talk about fuel cells with stories about boys and girls at a summer camp .
the feedback that i get is sometimes misspelled and it 's often written in lolcats , but nonetheless it 's so appreciative , so thankful that i know this is the right way we should be communicating science .
there 's still so much work left to be done , though , and if you 're involved with science in any way i urge you to join me .
pick up a camera , start to write a blog , whatever , but leave out the seriousness , leave out the jargon .
make me laugh . make me care .
leave out those annoying details that nobody cares about and just get to the point .
how should you start ?
why do n't you say , " listen , let me tell you a story " ?
thank you .
kevin surace : eco - friendly drywall 
 kevin surace suggests we rethink basic construction materials -- such as the familiar wallboard -- to reduce the huge carbon footprint generated by the manufacturing and construction of our buildings . he introduces ecorock , a clean , recyclable and energy - efficient drywall created by his team at serious materials .
what 's happening to the climate ?
it is unbelievably bad .
this is , obviously , that famous view now of the arctic , which is likely to be gone at this point in the next three or four or five years . very , very , very scary .
so we all look at what we can do .
and when you look at the worldwide sources of co2 , 52 percent are tied to buildings .
only nine percent is passenger cars , interestingly enough .
so we ran off to a sushi bar .
and at that sushi bar we came up with a great idea .
and it was something called ecorock .
and we said we could redesign the 115 - year - old gypsum drywall process that generates 20 billion pounds of co2 a year .
so it was a big idea . we wanted to reduce that by 80 percent , which is exactly what we 've done .
we started r ; d in 2006 .
decided to use recycled content from cement and steel manufacturing .
there is the inside of our lab . we have n't shown this before .
but our people had to do some 5,000 different mixes to get this right , to hit our targets .
and they worked absolutely very , very , very hard .
so then we went forward and built our production line in china .
we do n't build this production equipment any longer in the u.s. , unfortunately .
we did the line install over the summer .
we started right there , with absolutely nothing .
you 're seeing for the first time , a brand new drywall production line , not made using gypsum at all .
that 's the finished production line there .
we got our first panel out on december third .
that is the slurry being poured onto paper , basically . that 's the line running .
the exciting thing is , look at the faces of the people .
these are people who worked this project for two to three years .
and they are so excited . that 's the first board off the line .
our vice president of operation kissing the board . obviously very , very excited .
but this has a huge , huge impact on the environment .
we signed the first panel just a few weeks after that , had a great signing ceremony , leading to people hopefully using these products across the world .
and we 've got cradle - to - cradle gold on this thing .
we happened to win , just recently , the green product of the year for " the re-invention of drywall , " from popular science .
thank you . thank you .
so here is what we learned : 8,000 gallons of gas equivalent to build one house .
you probably had no idea . it 's like driving around the world six times .
we must change everything .
look around the room : chairs , wood , everything around us has to change or we 're not going to lick this problem .
do n't listen to the people who say you can n't do this , because anyone can .
and these job losses , we can fix them with green - collar jobs .
we 've got four plants . we 're building this stuff around the country .
we 're going as fast as we can .
two and a half million cars worth of gypsum , you know , co2 generated . right ?
those are my kids , natalie and david .
when they have their kids , 2050 , they 'd better look back at grandpa and say , " hey , you gave it a good shot . you did the best you could with the team that you had . "
so my hope is that when you leave ted , you will look at reducing your carbon footprint in however you can do it .
and if you do n't know how , please find me -- i will help you .
last but not least , bill gates , i know you invented windows .
wait till you see , maybe next year , what kind of windows we 've invented .
thank you so much .
shigeru ban : emergency shelters made from paper 
 long before sustainability was a buzzword , pritzker prize - winning architect shigeru ban had begun his experiments with ecologically sound building materials such as cardboard tubes . his remarkable structures are often intended as temporary housing for disaster - struck nations such as haiti , rwanda , japan . yet often the buildings remain a beloved part of the landscape long after they have served their intended purpose . 
hi . i am an architect .
i am the only architect in the world making buildings out of paper like this cardboard tube , and this exhibition is the first one i did using paper tubes .
1986 , much , much longer before people started talking about ecological issues and environmental issues , i just started testing the paper tube in order to use this as a building structure .
it 's very complicated to test the new material for the building , but this is much stronger than i expected , and also it 's very easy to waterproof , and also , because it 's industrial material , it 's also possible to fireproof .
then i built the temporary structure , 1990 .
this is the first temporary building made out of paper .
there are 330 tubes , diameter 55 [ centimeters ] , there are only 12 tubes with a diameter of 120 centimeters , or four feet , wide .
as you see it in the photo , inside is the toilet .
in case you 're finished with toilet paper , you can tear off the inside of the wall .
so it 's very useful .
year 2000 , there was a big expo in germany .
i was asked to design the building , because the theme of the expo was environmental issues .
so i was chosen to build the pavilion out of paper tubes , recyclable paper .
my goal of the design is not when it 's completed .
my goal was when the building was demolished , because each country makes a lot of pavilions but after half a year , we create a lot of industrial waste , so my building has to be reused or recycled .
after , the building was recycled .
so that was the goal of my design .
then i was very lucky to win the competition to build the second pompidou center in france in the city of metz .
because i was so poor , i wanted to rent an office in paris , but i could n't afford it , so i decided to bring my students to paris to build our office on top of the pompidou center in paris by ourselves .
so we brought the paper tubes and the wooden joints to complete the 35 - meter - long office .
we stayed there for six years without paying any rent .
thank you . i had one big problem .
because we were part of the exhibition , even if my friend wanted to see me , they had to buy a ticket to see me .
that was the problem .
then i completed the pompidou center in metz .
it 's a very popular museum now , and i created a big monument for the government .
but then i was very disappointed at my profession as an architect , because we are not helping , we are not working for society , but we are working for privileged people , rich people , government , developers .
they have money and power .
those are invisible .
so they hire us to visualize their power and money by making monumental architecture .
that is our profession , even historically it 's the same , even now we are doing the same .
so i was very disappointed that we are not working for society , even though there are so many people who lost their houses by natural disasters .
but i must say they are no longer natural disasters .
for example , earthquakes never kill people , but collapse of the buildings kill people .
that 's the responsibility of architects .
then people need some temporary housing , but there are no architects working there because we are too busy working for privileged people .
so i thought , even as architects , we can be involved in the reconstruction of temporary housing .
we can make it better .
so that is why i started working in disaster areas .
1994 , there was a big disaster in rwanda , africa .
two tribes , hutu and tutsi , fought each other .
over two million people became refugees .
but i was so surprised to see the shelter , refugee camp organized by the u.n.
they 're so poor , and they are freezing with blankets during the rainy season , in the shelters built by the u.n. , they were just providing a plastic sheet , and the refugees had to cut the trees , and just like this .
but over two million people cut trees .
it just became big , heavy deforestation and an environmental problem .
that is why they started providing aluminum pipes , aluminum barracks .
very expensive , they throw them out for money , then cutting trees again .
so i proposed my idea to improve the situation using these recycled paper tubes because this is so cheap and also so strong , but my budget is only 50 u.s. dollars per unit .
we built 50 units to do that as a monitoring test for the durability and moisture and termites , so on .
and then , year afterward , 1995 , in kobe , japan , we had a big earthquake .
nearly 7,000 people were killed , and the city like this nagata district , all the city was burned in a fire after the earthquake .
and also i found out there 's many vietnamese refugees suffering and gathering at a catholic church -- all the building was totally destroyed .
so i went there and also i proposed to the priests , " why do n't we rebuild the church out of paper tubes ? "
and he said , " oh god , are you crazy ?
after a fire , what are you proposing ? "
so he never trusted me , but i did n't give up .
i started commuting to kobe , and i met the society of vietnamese people .
they were living like this with very poor plastic sheets in the park .
so i proposed to rebuild . i raised -- did fundraising .
i made a paper tube shelter for them , and in order to make it easy to be built by students and also easy to demolish , i used beer crates as a foundation .
i asked the kirin beer company to propose , because at that time , the asahi beer company made their plastic beer crates red , which does n't go with the color of the paper tubes .
the color coordination is very important .
and also i still remember , we were expecting to have a beer inside the plastic beer crate , but it came empty .
so i remember it was so disappointing .
so during the summer with my students , we built over 50 units of the shelters .
finally the priest , finally he trusted me to rebuild .
he said , " as long as you collect money by yourself , bring your students to build , you can do it . "
so we spent five weeks rebuilding the church .
it was meant to stay there for three years , but actually it stayed there 10 years because people loved it .
then , in taiwan , they had a big earthquake , and we proposed to donate this church , so we dismantled them , we sent them over to be built by volunteer people .
it stayed there in taiwan as a permanent church even now .
so this building became a permanent building .
then i wonder , what is a permanent and what is a temporary building ?
even a building made in paper can be permanent as long as people love it .
even a concrete building can be very temporary if that is made to make money .
in 1999 , in turkey , the big earthquake , i went there to use the local material to build a shelter .
2001 , in west india , i built also a shelter .
in 2004 , in sri lanka , after the sumatra earthquake and tsunami , i rebuilt islamic fishermen 's villages .
and in 2008 , in chengdu , sichuan area in china , nearly 70,000 people were killed , and also especially many of the schools were destroyed because of the corruption between the authority and the contractor .
i was asked to rebuild the temporary church .
i brought my japanese students to work with the chinese students .
in one month , we completed nine classrooms , over 500 square meters .
it 's still used , even after the current earthquake in china .
in 2009 , in italy , l ' aquila , also they had a big earthquake .
and this is a very interesting photo : former prime minister berlusconi and japanese former former former former prime minister mr. aso -- you know , because we have to change the prime minister ever year .
and they are very kind , affording my model .
i proposed a big rebuilding , a temporary music hall , because l ' aquila is very famous for music and all the concert halls were destroyed , so musicians were moving out .
so i proposed to the mayor , i 'd like to rebuild the temporary auditorium .
he said , " as long as you bring your money , you can do it . "
and i was very lucky .
mr. berlusconi brought g8 summit , and our former prime minister came , so they helped us to collect money , and i got half a million euros from the japanese government to rebuild this temporary auditorium .
year 2010 in haiti , there was a big earthquake , but it 's impossible to fly over , so i went to santo domingo , next - door country , to drive six hours to get to haiti with the local students in santo domingo to build 50 units of shelter out of local paper tubes .
this is what happened in japan two years ago , in northern japan .
after the earthquake and tsunami , people had to be evacuated in a big room like a gymnasium .
but look at this . there 's no privacy .
people suffer mentally and physically .
so we went there to build partitions with all the student volunteers with paper tubes , just a very simple shelter out of the tube frame and the curtain .
however , some of the facility authority does n't want us to do it , because , they said , simply , it 's become more difficult to control them .
but it 's really necessary to do it .
they do n't have enough flat area to build standard government single - story housing like this one .
look at this . even civil government is doing such poor construction of the temporary housing , so dense and so messy because there is no storage , nothing , water is leaking , so i thought , we have to make multi-story building because there 's no land and also it 's not very comfortable .
so i proposed to the mayor while i was making partitions .
finally i met a very nice mayor in onagawa village in miyagi .
he asked me to build three - story housing on baseball [ fields ] .
i used the shipping container and also the students helped us to make all the building furniture to make them comfortable , within the budget of the government but also the area of the house is exactly the same , but much more comfortable .
many of the people want to stay here forever .
i was very happy to hear that .
now i am working in new zealand , christchurch .
about 20 days before the japanese earthquake happened , also they had a big earthquake , and many japanese students were also killed , and the most important cathedral of the city , the symbol of christchurch , was totally destroyed .
and i was asked to come to rebuild the temporary cathedral .
so this is under construction .
and i 'd like to keep building monuments that are beloved by people .
thank you very much .
thank you .
thank you very much .
zeresenay alemseged : the search for humanity 's roots 
 paleoanthropologist zeresenay alemseged looks for the roots of humanity in ethiopia 's badlands . here he talks about finding the oldest skeleton of a humanoid child -- and how africa holds the clues to our humanity .
i have 18 minutes to tell you what happened over the past six million years .
all right .
we all have come from a long way , here in africa , and converged in this region of africa , which is a place where 90 percent of our evolutionary process took place .
and i say that not because i am african , but it 's in africa that you find the earliest evidence for human ancestors , upright walking traces , even the first technologies in the form of stone tools .
so we all are africans , and welcome home .
all right .
i 'm a paleoanthropologist , and my job is to define man 's place in nature and explore what makes us human .
and today , i will use selam , the earliest child ever discovered , to tell you a story of all of us .
selam is our most complete skeleton of a three - year - old girl who lived and died 3.3 million years ago .
she belongs to the species known as australopithecus afarensis .
you do n't need to remember that .
that 's the lucy species , and was found by my research team in december of 2000 in an area called dikika .
it 's in the northeastern part of ethiopia .
and selam means peace in many ethiopian languages .
we use that name to celebrate peace in the region and in the planet .
and the fact that it was the cover story of all these famous magazines gives you already an idea of her significance , i think .
after i was invited by ted , i did some digging , because that 's what we do , to know about my host .
you do n't just jump into an invitation .
and i learned that the first technology appeared in the form of stone tools , 2.6 million years ago .
first entertainment comes evidence from flutes that are 35,000 years old .
and evidence for first design comes 75,000 years old -- beads .
and you can do the same with your genes and track them back in time .
and dna analysis of living humans and chimpanzees teaches us today that we diverged sometime around seven million years ago and that these two species share over 98 percent of the same genetic material .
i think knowing this is a very useful context within which we can think of our ancestry .
however , dna analysis informs us only about the beginning and the end , telling us nothing about what happened in the middle .
so , for us , paleoanthropologists , our job is to find the hard evidence , the fossil evidence , to fill in this gap and see the different stages of development .
because it 's only when you do that , that you can talk about -- -- it 's only when you do that , [ that ] you can talk about how we looked like and how we behaved at different times , and how those likes and looks and behaviors changed through time .
that then gives you an access to explore the biological mechanisms and forces that are responsible for this gradual change that made us what we are today .
but finding the hard evidence is a very complicated endeavor .
it 's a systematic and scientific approach , which takes you to places that are remote , hot , hostile and often with no access .
just to give you an example , when i went to dikika , where selam was found , in ' 99 -- and it 's about 500 kilometers from addis ababa , the capital of ethiopia .
it took us only seven hours to do the first 470 kilometers of the 500 , but took four , solid hours to do the last only 30 kilometers .
with the help of the locals and using just shovels and picks , i made my way .
i was the first person to actually drive a car to the spot .
when you get there , this is what you see , and it 's the vastness of the place which makes you feel helpless and vulnerable .
and once you make it there , the big question is where to start .
and you find nothing for years and years .
when i go to places like this , which are paleontological sites , it 's like going to a game park , an extinct game park .
but what you find are not the human remains , such as selam and lucy , on a day - to - day basis .
you find elephants , rhinos , monkeys , pigs , etc.
but you could ask , how could these large mammals live in this desert environment ?
of course , they cannot , but i 'm telling you already that the environment and the carrying capacity of this region was drastically different from what we have today .
a very important environmental lesson could be learned from this .
anyway , once we made it there , then it 's a game park , as i said , an extinct game park .
and our ancestors lived in that game park , but were just the minorities . they were not as successful and as widespread as the homo sapiens that we are .
to tell you just an example , an anecdote about their rarity , i was going to this place every year and would do fieldwork here , and the assistants , of course , helped me do the surveys .
they would find a bone and tell me , " here is what you 're looking for . "
i would say , " no , that 's an elephant . "
again , another one , " that 's a monkey . " " that 's a pig , " etc.
so one of my assistants , who never went to school , said to me , " listen , zeray .
you either do n't know what you 're looking for , or you 're looking in the wrong place , " he said .
and i said , " why ? " " because there were elephants and lions , and the people were scared and went somewhere else .
let 's go somewhere else . "
well , he was very tired , and it 's really tiring .
it was then , after such hard work and many frustrating years that we found selam , and you see the face here covered by sandstone .
and here is actually the spinal column and the whole torso encased in a sandstone block , because she was buried by a river .
what you have here seems to be nothing , but contains an incredible amount of scientific information that helps us explore what makes us human .
this is the earliest and most complete juvenile human ancestor ever found in the history of paleoanthropology , an amazing piece of our long , long history .
there were these three people and me , and i am taking the pictures , that 's why i am not in .
how would you feel if you were me ? you have something extraordinary in your hand , but you are in the middle of nowhere ?
the feeling i had was a deep and quiet happiness and excitement , of course accompanied by a huge sense of responsibility , of making sure everything is safe .
here is a close - up of the fossil , after five years of cleaning , preparation and description , which was very long , as i had to expose the bones from the sandstone block i just showed you in the previous slide .
it took five years .
in a way , this was like the second birth for the child , after 3.3 million years , but the labor was very long .
and here is full scale -- it 's a tiny bone .
and in the middle is the minister of ethiopian tourism , who came to visit the national museum of ethiopia while i was working there .
and you see me worried and trying to protect my child , because you do n't leave anyone with this kind of child , even a minister .
so then , once you 've done that , the next stage is to know what it is .
once that was done , then it was possible to compare .
we were able to tell that she belonged to the human family tree because the legs , the foot , and some features clearly showed that she walked upright , and upright walking is a hallmark in humanity .
but in addition , if you compare the skull with a comparably aged chimpanzee and little george bush here , you see that you have vertical forehead .
and you see that in humans , because of the development of the pre-frontal cortex , it 's called .
you do n't see that in chimpanzees , and you do n't see this very projecting canine .
so she belongs to our family tree , but within that , of course , you do detailed analysis , and we know now that she belongs to the lucy species , known as australopithecus afarensis .
the next exciting question is , girl or boy ?
and how old was she when she died ?
you can determine the sex of the individual based on the size of the teeth .
how ?
you know , in primates , there is this phenomenon called sexual dimorphism , which simply means males are larger than females and males have larger teeth than the females .
but to do that , you need the permanent dentition , which you do n't see here , because what you have here are the baby teeth .
but using the ct scanning technology , which is normally used for medical purposes , you can go deep into the mouth and come up with this beautiful image showing you both the baby teeth here and the still - growing adult teeth here .
so when you measure those teeth , it was clear that she turned out to be a girl with very small canine teeth .
and to know how old she was when she died , what you do is you do an informed estimate , and you say , how much time would be required to form this amount of teeth , and the answer was three .
so , this girl died when she was about three , 3.3 million years ago .
so , with all that information , the big question is -- what do we actually -- what does she tell us ?
to answer this question , we can phrase another question .
what do we actually know about our ancestors ?
we want to know how they looked like , how they behaved , how they walked around , and how they lived and grew up .
and among the answers that you can get from this skeleton are included : first , this skeleton documents , for the first time , how infants looked over three million years ago .
and second , she tells us that she walked upright , but had some adaptation for tree climbing .
and more interesting , however , is the brain in this child was still growing .
at age three , if you have a still - growing brain , it 's a human behavior .
in chimps , by age three , the brain is formed over 90 percent .
that 's why they can cope with their environment very easily after birth -- faster than us , anyway .
but in humans , we continue to grow our brains .
that 's why we need care from our parents .
but that care means also you learn .
you spend more time with your parents .
and that 's very characteristic of humans and it 's called childhood , which is this extended dependence of human children on their family or parents .
so , the still - growing brain in this individual tells us that childhood , which requires an incredible social organization , a very complex social organization , emerged over three million years ago .
so , by being at the cusp of our evolutionary history , selam unites us all and gives us a unique account on what makes us human .
but not everything was human , and i will give you a very exciting example .
this is called the hyoid bone . it 's a bone which is right here .
it supports your tongue from behind .
it 's , in a way , your voice box .
it determines the type of voice you produce .
it was not known in the fossil record , and we have it in this skeleton .
when we did the analysis of this bone , it was clear that it looked very chimp - like , chimpanzee - like .
so if you were there 3.3 million years ago , to hear when this girl was crying out for her mother , she would have sounded more like a chimpanzee than a human .
maybe you 're wondering , " so , you see this ape feature , human feature , ape feature .
what does that tell us ? "
you know , that is very exciting for us , because it demonstrates that things were changing slowly and progressively , and that evolution is in the making .
to summarize the significance of this fossil , we can say the following .
up to now , the knowledge that we had about our ancestors came essentially from adult individuals because the fossils , the baby fossils , were missing .
they do n't preserve well , as you know .
so the knowledge that we had about our ancestors , on how they looked like , how they behaved , was kind of biased toward adults .
imagine somebody coming from mars and his job is to report on the type of people occupying our planet earth , and you hide all the babies , the children , and he goes back and reports .
can you imagine how much biased his report would be ?
that 's what somehow we were doing so far in the absence of the fossil children , so i think the new fossil fixes this problem .
so , i think the most important question at the end is , what do we actually learn from specimens like this and from our past in general ?
of course , in addition to extracting this huge amount of scientific information as to what makes us human , you know , the many human ancestors that have existed over the past six million years -- and there are more than 10 -- they did not have the knowledge , the technology and sophistications that we , homo sapiens , have today .
but if this species , ancient species , would travel in time and see us today , they would very much be very proud of their legacy , because they became the ancestors of the most successful species in the universe .
and they were probably not aware of this future legacy , but they did great .
now the question is , we homo sapiens today are in a position to decide about the future of our planet , possibly more .
so the question is , are we up to the challenge ?
and can we really do better than these primitive , small - brained ancestors ?
among the most pressing challenges that our species is faced with today are the chronic problems of africa .
needless to list them here , and there are more competent people to talk about this .
still , in my opinion , we have two choices .
one is to continue to see a poor , ill , crying africa , carrying guns , that depends on other people forever , or to promote an africa which is confident , peaceful , independent , but cognizant of its huge problems and great values at the same time .
i am for the second option , and i 'm sure many of you are .
and the key is to promote a positive african attitude towards africa .
that 's because we africans concentrate -- i am from ethiopia , by the way -- we concentrate too much on how we are seen from elsewhere , or from outside .
i think it 's important to promote in a more positive way on how we see ourselves .
that 's what i call positive african attitude .
so finally , i would like to say , so let 's help africa walk upright and forward , then we all can be proud of our future legacy as a species .
thank you .
neil burgess : how your brain tells you where you are 
 how do you remember where you parked your car ? how do you know if you 're moving in the right direction ? neuroscientist neil burgess studies the neural mechanisms that map the space around us , and how they link to memory and imagination .
when we park in a big parking lot , how do we remember where we parked our car ?
here 's the problem facing homer .
and we 're going to try to understand what 's happening in his brain .
so we 'll start with the hippocampus , shown in yellow , which is the organ of memory .
if you have damage there , like in alzheimer 's , you can n't remember things including where you parked your car .
it 's named after latin for " seahorse , " which it resembles .
and like the rest of the brain , it 's made of neurons .
so the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it .
and the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other .
the hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells , which are very densely interconnected .
and scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food .
so we 're going to imagine we 're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here .
and when it fires a little spike of electricity , there 's going to be a red dot and a click .
so what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment .
and it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike .
so we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal 's location .
and if we record from lots of different neurons , we 'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment , like in this square box shown here .
so together they form a map for the rest of the brain , telling the brain continually , " where am i now within my environment ? "
place cells are also being recorded in humans .
so epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring .
and some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town .
and place cells in their hippocampi would fire , become active , start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town .
so how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment ?
well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important .
so the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat 's in .
and when you expand the box , the firing location expands .
the one below likes to fire whenever there 's a wall close by to the south .
and if you put another wall inside the box , then the cell fires in both place wherever there 's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box .
so this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you -- extended buildings and so on -- is particularly important for the hippocampus .
and indeed , on the inputs to the hippocampus , cells are found which project into the hippocampus , which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it 's exploring around .
so the cell on the left , you can see , it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east , whether it 's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table , which the animals are running around .
and the cell on the right there fires whenever there 's a boundary to the south , whether it 's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart .
so that 's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it 's exploring around .
we can also test where we think objects are , like this goal flag , in simple environments -- or indeed , where your car would be .
so we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember .
and then , if we put them back in the environment , generally they 're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was .
but on some trials , we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell .
in that case , we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment .
and what you see , for example , if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment , and then if you ask people where it was , but you 've made the environment bigger , where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out .
it 's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location , and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern .
that guides you back to the location that you want to remember .
but we also know where we are through movement .
so if we take some outbound path -- perhaps we park and we wander off -- we know because our own movements , which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back .
and place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell .
now grid cells are found , again , on the inputs to the hippocampus , and they 're a bit like place cells .
but now as the rat explores around , each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid .
and if you record from several grid cells -- shown here in different colors -- each one has a grid - like firing pattern across the environment , and each cell 's grid - like firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells .
so the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one .
so together , it 's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment -- a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you 'd find on a map , but using triangles .
and as it moves around , the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is , so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment .
do people have grid cells ?
well because all of the grid - like firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry , the same orientations of grid , shown in orange here , it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we 're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between .
so we can put people in an mri scanner and have them do a little video game like the one i showed you and look for this signal .
and indeed , you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex , which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats .
so back to homer .
he 's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked .
and that would be represented by the firing of boundary - detecting cells .
he 's also remembering the path he took out of the car park , which would be represented in the firing of grid cells .
now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire .
and he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car .
and that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car 's actually there .
maybe it 's been towed .
but he knows where it was , so he knows to go and get it .
so beyond spatial memory , if we look for this grid - like firing pattern throughout the whole brain , we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks , like remembering the last time you went to a wedding , for example .
so it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene , at least , of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them .
so if this was happening , your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint .
and grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space .
another kind of cell , head direction cells , which i did n't mention yet , they fire like a compass according to which way you 're facing .
they could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery , so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding , for example .
so this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we 're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains .
thank you very much .
bill t . jones : the dancer , the singer , the cellist ... and a moment of creative magic 
 ted talk subtitles and transcript : legendary dance choreographer bill t . jones and ted fellows joshua roman and somi did n't know exactly what was going to happen when they took the stage at ted2015 . they just knew they wanted to offer the audience an opportunity to witness creative collaboration in action . the result : an improvised piece they call " the red circle and the blue curtain , " so extraordinary it had to be shared ...
isadora duncan -- -- crazy , long - legged woman from san francisco , got tired of this country , and she wanted to get out .
isadora was famous somewhere around 1908 for putting up a blue curtain , and she would stand with her hands over her solar plexus and she would wait , and she would wait , and then , she would move .
josh and i and somi call this piece " the red circle and the blue curtain . "
red circle .
blue curtain .
but , this is not the beginning of the 20th century .
this is a morning in vancouver in 2015 .
come on , josh !
go !
are we there yet ?
i do n't think so .
hey , yeah !
what time is it ?
where are we ?
josh .
somi .
bill t .
josh .
somi .
bill t .
yeah , yeah !
nigel marsh : how to make work - life balance work 
 work - life balance , says nigel marsh , is too important to be left in the hands of your employer . marsh lays out an ideal day balanced between family time , personal time and productivity -- and offers some stirring encouragement to make it happen .
what i thought i would do is i would start with a simple request .
i 'd like all of you to pause for a moment , you wretched weaklings , and take stock of your miserable existence .
now that was the advice that st . benedict gave his rather startled followers in the fifth century .
it was the advice that i decided to follow myself when i turned 40 .
up until that moment , i had been that classic corporate warrior -- i was eating too much , i was drinking too much , i was working too hard and i was neglecting the family .
and i decided that i would try and turn my life around .
in particular , i decided i would try to address the thorny issue of work - life balance .
so i stepped back from the workforce , and i spent a year at home with my wife and four young children .
but all i learned about work - life balance from that year was that i found it quite easy to balance work and life when i did n't have any work .
not a very useful skill , especially when the money runs out .
so i went back to work , and i 've spent these seven years since struggling with , studying and writing about work - life balance .
and i have four observations i 'd like to share with you today .
the first is : if society 's to make any progress on this issue , we need an honest debate .
but the trouble is so many people talk so much rubbish about work - life balance .
all the discussions about flexi - time or dress - down fridays or paternity leave only serve to mask the core issue , which is that certain job and career choices are fundamentally incompatible with being meaningfully engaged on a day - to - day basis with a young family .
now the first step in solving any problem is acknowledging the reality of the situation you 're in .
and the reality of the society that we 're in is there are thousands and thousands of people out there leading lives of quiet , screaming desperation , where they work long , hard hours at jobs they hate to enable them to buy things they do n't need to impress people they do n't like .
it 's my contention that going to work on friday in jeans and [ a ] t - shirt is n't really getting to the nub of the issue .
the second observation i 'd like to make is we need to face the truth that governments and corporations are n't going to solve this issue for us .
we should stop looking outside .
it 's up to us as individuals to take control and responsibility for the type of lives that we want to lead .
if you do n't design your life , someone else will design it for you , and you may just not like their idea of balance .
it 's particularly important -- this is n't on the world wide web , is it ? i 'm about to get fired -- it 's particularly important that you never put the quality of your life in the hands of a commercial corporation .
now i 'm not talking here just about the bad companies -- the " abattoirs of the human soul , " as i call them .
i 'm talking about all companies .
because commercial companies are inherently designed to get as much out of you [ as ] they can get away with .
it 's in their nature ; it 's in their dna ; it 's what they do -- even the good , well - intentioned companies .
on the one hand , putting childcare facilities in the workplace is wonderful and enlightened .
on the other hand , it 's a nightmare -- it just means you spend more time at the bloody office .
we have to be responsible for setting and enforcing the boundaries that we want in our life .
the third observation is we have to be careful with the time frame that we choose upon which to judge our balance .
before i went back to work after my year at home , i sat down and i wrote out a detailed , step - by - step description of the ideal balanced day that i aspired to .
and it went like this : wake up well rested after a good night 's sleep .
have sex .
walk the dog .
have breakfast with my wife and children .
have sex again .
drive the kids to school on the way to the office .
do three hours ' work .
play a sport with a friend at lunchtime .
do another three hours ' work .
meet some mates in the pub for an early evening drink .
drive home for dinner with my wife and kids .
meditate for half an hour .
have sex .
walk the dog . have sex again .
go to bed .
how often do you think i have that day ?
we need to be realistic .
you can n't do it all in one day .
we need to elongate the time frame upon which we judge the balance in our life , but we need to elongate it without falling into the trap of the " i 'll have a life when i retire , when my kids have left home , when my wife has divorced me , my health is failing , i 've got no mates or interests left . "
a day is too short ; " after i retire " is too long .
there 's got to be a middle way .
a fourth observation : we need to approach balance in a balanced way .
a friend came to see me last year -- and she does n't mind me telling this story -- a friend came to see me last year and said , " nigel , i 've read your book .
and i realize that my life is completely out of balance .
it 's totally dominated by work .
i work 10 hours a day ; i commute two hours a day .
all of my relationships have failed .
there 's nothing in my life apart from my work .
so i 've decided to get a grip and sort it out .
so i joined a gym . "
now i do n't mean to mock , but being a fit 10 - hour - a - day office rat is n't more balanced ; it 's more fit .
lovely though physical exercise may be , there are other parts to life -- there 's the intellectual side ; there 's the emotional side ; there 's the spiritual side .
and to be balanced , i believe we have to attend to all of those areas -- not just do 50 stomach crunches .
now that can be daunting .
because people say , " bloody hell mate , i have n't got time to get fit .
you want me to go to church and call my mother . "
and i understand .
i truly understand how that can be daunting .
but an incident that happened a couple of years ago gave me a new perspective .
my wife , who is somewhere in the audience today , called me up at the office and said , " nigel , you need to pick our youngest son " -- harry -- " up from school . "
because she had to be somewhere else with the other three children for that evening .
so i left work an hour early that afternoon and picked harry up at the school gates .
we walked down to the local park , messed around on the swings , played some silly games .
i then walked him up the hill to the local cafe , and we shared a pizza for two , then walked down the hill to our home , and i gave him his bath and put him in his batman pajamas .
i then read him a chapter of roald dahl 's " james and the giant peach . "
i then put him to bed , tucked him in , gave him a kiss on his forehead and said , " goodnight , mate , " and walked out of his bedroom .
as i was walking out of his bedroom , he said , " dad ? " i went , " yes , mate ? "
he went , " dad , this has been the best day of my life , ever . "
i had n't done anything , had n't taken him to disney world or bought him a playstation .
now my point is the small things matter .
being more balanced does n't mean dramatic upheaval in your life .
with the smallest investment in the right places , you can radically transform the quality of your relationships and the quality of your life .
moreover , i think , it can transform society .
because if enough people do it , we can change society 's definition of success away from the moronically simplistic notion that the person with the most money when he dies wins , to a more thoughtful and balanced definition of what a life well lived looks like .
and that , i think , is an idea worth spreading .
sam harris : science can answer moral questions 
 questions of good and evil , right and wrong are commonly thought unanswerable by science . but sam harris argues that science can -- and should -- be an authority on moral issues , shaping human values and setting out what constitutes a good life .
i 'm going to speak today about the relationship between science and human values .
now , it 's generally understood that questions of morality -- questions of good and evil and right and wrong -- are questions about which science officially has no opinion .
it 's thought that science can help us get what we value , but it can never tell us what we ought to value .
and , consequently , most people -- i think most people probably here -- think that science will never answer the most important questions in human life : questions like , " what is worth living for ? "
" what is worth dying for ? "
" what constitutes a good life ? "
so , i 'm going to argue that this is an illusion -- that the separation between science and human values is an illusion -- and actually quite a dangerous one at this point in human history .
now , it 's often said that science cannot give us a foundation for morality and human values , because science deals with facts , and facts and values seem to belong to different spheres .
it 's often thought that there 's no description of the way the world is that can tell us how the world ought to be .
but i think this is quite clearly untrue .
values are a certain kind of fact .
they are facts about the well - being of conscious creatures .
why is it that we do n't have ethical obligations toward rocks ?
why do n't we feel compassion for rocks ?
it 's because we do n't think rocks can suffer . and if we 're more concerned about our fellow primates than we are about insects , as indeed we are , it 's because we think they 're exposed to a greater range of potential happiness and suffering .
now , the crucial thing to notice here is that this is a factual claim : this is something that we could be right or wrong about . and if we have misconstrued the relationship between biological complexity and the possibilities of experience well then we could be wrong about the inner lives of insects .
and there 's no notion , no version of human morality and human values that i 've ever come across that is not at some point reducible to a concern about conscious experience and its possible changes .
even if you get your values from religion , even if you think that good and evil ultimately relate to conditions after death -- either to an eternity of happiness with god or an eternity of suffering in hell -- you are still concerned about consciousness and its changes .
and to say that such changes can persist after death is itself a factual claim , which , of course , may or may not be true .
now , to speak about the conditions of well - being in this life , for human beings , we know that there is a continuum of such facts .
we know that it 's possible to live in a failed state , where everything that can go wrong does go wrong -- where mothers cannot feed their children , where strangers cannot find the basis for peaceful collaboration , where people are murdered indiscriminately .
and we know that it 's possible to move along this continuum towards something quite a bit more idyllic , to a place where a conference like this is even conceivable .
and we know -- we know -- that there are right and wrong answers to how to move in this space .
would adding cholera to the water be a good idea ?
probably not .
would it be a good idea for everyone to believe in the evil eye , so that when bad things happened to them they immediately blame their neighbors ? probably not .
there are truths to be known about how human communities flourish , whether or not we understand these truths .
and morality relates to these truths .
so , in talking about values we are talking about facts .
now , of course our situation in the world can be understood at many levels -- from the level of the genome on up to the level of economic systems and political arrangements .
but if we 're going to talk about human well - being we are , of necessity , talking about the human brain .
because we know that our experience of the world and of ourselves within it is realized in the brain -- whatever happens after death .
even if the suicide bomber does get 72 virgins in the afterlife , in this life , his personality -- his rather unfortunate personality -- is the product of his brain .
so the contributions of culture -- if culture changes us , as indeed it does , it changes us by changing our brains .
and so therefore whatever cultural variation there is in how human beings flourish can , at least in principle , be understood in the context of a maturing science of the mind -- neuroscience , psychology , etc.
so , what i 'm arguing is that value 's reduced to facts -- to facts about the conscious experience of conscious beings .
and we can therefore visualize a space of possible changes in the experience of these beings .
and i think of this as kind of a moral landscape , with peaks and valleys that correspond to differences in the well - being of conscious creatures , both personal and collective .
and one thing to notice is that perhaps there are states of human well - being that we rarely access , that few people access .
and these await our discovery .
perhaps some of these states can be appropriately called mystical or spiritual .
perhaps there are other states that we can n't access because of how our minds are structured but other minds possibly could access them .
now , let me be clear about what i 'm not saying . i 'm not saying that science is guaranteed to map this space , or that we will have scientific answers to every conceivable moral question .
i do n't think , for instance , that you will one day consult a supercomputer to learn whether you should have a second child , or whether we should bomb iran 's nuclear facilities , or whether you can deduct the full cost of ted as a business expense .
but if questions affect human well - being then they do have answers , whether or not we can find them .
and just admitting this -- just admitting that there are right and wrong answers to the question of how humans flourish -- will change the way we talk about morality , and will change our expectations of human cooperation in the future .
for instance , there are 21 states in our country where corporal punishment in the classroom is legal , where it is legal for a teacher to beat a child with a wooden board , hard , and raising large bruises and blisters and even breaking the skin .
and hundreds of thousands of children , incidentally , are subjected to this every year .
the locations of these enlightened districts , i think , will fail to surprise you .
we 're not talking about connecticut .
and the rationale for this behavior is explicitly religious .
the creator of the universe himself has told us not to spare the rod , lest we spoil the child -- this is in proverbs 13 and 20 , and i believe , 23 .
but we can ask the obvious question : is it a good idea , generally speaking , to subject children to pain and violence and public humiliation as a way of encouraging healthy emotional development and good behavior ?
is there any doubt that this question has an answer , and that it matters ?
now , many of you might worry that the notion of well - being is truly undefined , and seemingly perpetually open to be re-construed .
and so , how therefore can there be an objective notion of well - being ?
well , consider by analogy , the concept of physical health .
the concept of physical health is undefined .
as we just heard from michael specter , it has changed over the years .
when this statue was carved the average life expectancy was probably 30 .
it 's now around 80 in the developed world .
there may come a time when we meddle with our genomes in such a way that not being able to run a marathon at age 200 will be considered a profound disability .
people will send you donations when you 're in that condition .
notice that the fact that the concept of health is open , genuinely open for revision , does not make it vacuous .
the distinction between a healthy person and a dead one is about as clear and consequential as any we make in science .
another thing to notice is there may be many peaks on the moral landscape : there may be equivalent ways to thrive ; there may be equivalent ways to organize a human society so as to maximize human flourishing .
now , why would n't this undermine an objective morality ?
well think of how we talk about food : i would never be tempted to argue to you that there must be one right food to eat .
there is clearly a range of materials that constitute healthy food .
but there 's nevertheless a clear distinction between food and poison .
the fact that there are many right answers to the question , " what is food ? "
does not tempt us to say that there are no truths to be known about human nutrition .
many people worry that a universal morality would require moral precepts that admit of no exceptions .
so , for instance , if it 's really wrong to lie , it must always be wrong to lie , and if you can find an exception , well then there 's no such thing as moral truth .
why would we think this ?
consider , by analogy , the game of chess .
now , if you 're going to play good chess , a principle like , " do n't lose your queen , " is very good to follow .
but it clearly admits some exceptions .
there are moments when losing your queen is a brilliant thing to do .
there are moments when it is the only good thing you can do .
and yet , chess is a domain of perfect objectivity .
the fact that there are exceptions here does not change that at all .
now , this brings us to the sorts of moves that people are apt to make in the moral sphere .
consider the great problem of women 's bodies : what to do about them ?
well this is one thing you can do about them : you can cover them up .
now , it is the position , generally speaking , of our intellectual community that while we may not like this , we might think of this as " wrong " in boston or palo alto , who are we to say that the proud denizens of an ancient culture are wrong to force their wives and daughters to live in cloth bags ?
and who are we to say , even , that they 're wrong to beat them with lengths of steel cable , or throw battery acid in their faces if they decline the privilege of being smothered in this way ?
well , who are we not to say this ?
who are we to pretend that we know so little about human well - being that we have to be non-judgmental about a practice like this ?
i 'm not talking about voluntary wearing of a veil -- women should be able to wear whatever they want , as far as i 'm concerned .
but what does voluntary mean in a community where , when a girl gets raped , her father 's first impulse , rather often , is to murder her out of shame ?
just let that fact detonate in your brain for a minute : your daughter gets raped , and what you want to do is kill her .
what are the chances that represents a peak of human flourishing ?
now , to say this is not to say that we have got the perfect solution in our own society .
for instance , this is what it 's like to go to a newsstand almost anywhere in the civilized world .
now , granted , for many men it may require a degree in philosophy to see something wrong with these images .
but if we are in a reflective mood , we can ask , " is this the perfect expression of psychological balance with respect to variables like youth and beauty and women 's bodies ? "
i mean , is this the optimal environment in which to raise our children ?
probably not . ok , so perhaps there 's some place on the spectrum between these two extremes that represents a place of better balance .
perhaps there are many such places -- again , given other changes in human culture there may be many peaks on the moral landscape .
but the thing to notice is that there will be many more ways not to be on a peak .
now the irony , from my perspective , is that the only people who seem to generally agree with me and who think that there are right and wrong answers to moral questions are religious demagogues of one form or another .
and of course they think they have right answers to moral questions because they got these answers from a voice in a whirlwind , not because they made an intelligent analysis of the causes and condition of human and animal well - being .
in fact , the endurance of religion as a lens through which most people view moral questions has separated most moral talk from real questions of human and animal suffering .
this is why we spend our time talking about things like gay marriage and not about genocide or nuclear proliferation or poverty or any other hugely consequential issue .
but the demagogues are right about one thing : we need a universal conception of human values .
now , what stands in the way of this ?
well , one thing to notice is that we do something different when talking about morality -- especially secular , academic , scientist types .
when talking about morality we value differences of opinion in a way that we do n't in any other area of our lives .
so , for instance the dalai lama gets up every morning meditating on compassion , and he thinks that helping other human beings is an integral component of human happiness .
on the other hand , we have someone like ted bundy ; ted bundy was very fond of abducting and raping and torturing and killing young women .
so , we appear to have a genuine difference of opinion about how to profitably use one 's time .
most western intellectuals look at this situation and say , " well , there 's nothing for the dalai lama to be really right about -- really right about -- or for ted bundy to be really wrong about that admits of a real argument that potentially falls within the purview of science .
he likes chocolate , he likes vanilla .
there 's nothing that one should be able to say to the other that should persuade the other . "
notice that we do n't do this in science .
on the left you have edward witten .
he 's a string theorist .
if you ask the smartest physicists around who is the smartest physicist around , in my experience half of them will say ed witten .
the other half will tell you they do n't like the question .
so , what would happen if i showed up at a physics conference and said , " string theory is bogus .
it does n't resonate with me . it 's not how i chose to view the universe at a small scale .
i 'm not a fan . "
well , nothing would happen because i 'm not a physicist ; i do n't understand string theory .
i 'm the ted bundy of string theory .
i would n't want to belong to any string theory club that would have me as a member .
but this is just the point .
whenever we are talking about facts certain opinions must be excluded .
that is what it is to have a domain of expertise .
that is what it is for knowledge to count .
how have we convinced ourselves that in the moral sphere there is no such thing as moral expertise , or moral talent , or moral genius even ?
how have we convinced ourselves that every opinion has to count ?
how have we convinced ourselves that every culture has a point of view on these subjects worth considering ?
does the taliban have a point of view on physics that is worth considering ? no .
how is their ignorance any less obvious on the subject of human well - being ?
so , this , i think , is what the world needs now .
it needs people like ourselves to admit that there are right and wrong answers to questions of human flourishing , and morality relates to that domain of facts .
it is possible for individuals , and even for whole cultures , to care about the wrong things , which is to say that it 's possible for them to have beliefs and desires that reliably lead to needless human suffering .
just admitting this will transform our discourse about morality .
we live in a world in which the boundaries between nations mean less and less , and they will one day mean nothing .
we live in a world filled with destructive technology , and this technology cannot be uninvented ; it will always be easier to break things than to fix them .
it seems to me , therefore , patently obvious that we can no more respect and tolerate vast differences in notions of human well - being than we can respect or tolerate vast differences in the notions about how disease spreads , or in the safety standards of buildings and airplanes .
we simply must converge on the answers we give to the most important questions in human life .
and to do that , we have to admit that these questions have answers .
thank you very much .
so , some combustible material there .
whether in this audience or people elsewhere in the world , hearing some of this , may well be doing the screaming - with - rage thing , after as well , some of them .
language seems to be really important here .
when you 're talking about the veil , you 're talking about women dressed in cloth bags .
i 've lived in the muslim world , spoken with a lot of muslim women .
and some of them would say something else . they would say , " no , you know , this is a celebration of female specialness , it helps build that and it 's a result of the fact that " -- and this is arguably a sophisticated psychological view -- " that male lust is not to be trusted . "
i mean , can you engage in a conversation with that kind of woman without seeming kind of cultural imperialist ?
sam harris : yeah , well i think i tried to broach this in a sentence , watching the clock ticking , but the question is : what is voluntary in a context where men have certain expectations , and you 're guaranteed to be treated in a certain way if you do n't veil yourself ?
and so , if anyone in this room wanted to wear a veil , or a very funny hat , or tattoo their face -- i think we should be free to voluntarily do whatever we want , but we have to be honest about the constraints that these women are placed under .
and so i think we should n't be so eager to always take their word for it , especially when it 's 120 degrees out and you 're wearing a full burqa .
a lot of people want to believe in this concept of moral progress .
but can you reconcile that ?
i think i understood you to say that you could reconcile that with a world that does n't become one dimensional , where we all have to think the same .
paint your picture of what rolling the clock 50 years forward , 100 years forward , how you would like to think of the world , balancing moral progress with richness .
sh : well , i think once you admit that we are on the path toward understanding our minds at the level of the brain in some important detail , then you have to admit that we are going to understand all of the positive and negative qualities of ourselves in much greater detail .
so , we 're going to understand positive social emotion like empathy and compassion , and we 're going to understand the factors that encourage it -- whether they 're genetic , whether they 're how people talk to one another , whether they 're economic systems , and insofar as we begin to shine light on that we are inevitably going to converge on that fact space .
so , everything is not going to be up for grabs .
it 's not going to be like veiling my daughter from birth is just as good as teaching her to be confident and well - educated in the context of men who do desire women .
i mean i do n't think we need an nsf grant to know that compulsory veiling is a bad idea -- but at a certain point we 're going to be able to scan the brains of everyone involved and actually interrogate them .
do people love their daughters just as much in these systems ?
and i think there are clearly right answers to that .
and if the results come out that actually they do , are you prepared to shift your instinctive current judgment on some of these issues ?
sh : well yeah , modulo one obvious fact , that you can love someone in the context of a truly delusional belief system .
so , you can say like , " because i knew my gay son was going to go to hell if he found a boyfriend , i chopped his head off . and that was the most compassionate thing i could do . "
if you get all those parts aligned , yes i think you could probably be feeling the emotion of love .
but again , then we have to talk about well - being in a larger context .
it 's all of us in this together , not one man feeling ecstasy and then blowing himself up on a bus .
sam , this is a conversation i would actually love to continue for hours .
we do n't have that , but maybe another time . thank you for coming to ted .
sh : really an honor . thank you .
kavita ramdas : radical women , embracing tradition 
 investing in women can unlock infinite potential around the globe . but how can women walk the line between western - style empowerment and traditional culture ? kavita ramdas of the global fund for women talks about three encounters with powerful women who fight to make the world better -- while preserving the traditions that sustain them .
salaam . namaskar .
good morning .
given my ted profile , you might be expecting that i 'm going to speak to you about the latest philanthropic trends -- the one that 's currently got wall street and the world bank buzzing -- how to invest in women , how to empower them , how to save them .
not me .
i am interested in how women are saving us .
they 're saving us by redefining and re-imagining a future that defies and blurs accepted polarities , polarities we 've taken for granted for a long time , like the ones between modernity and tradition , first world and third world , oppression and opportunity .
in the midst of the daunting challenges we face as a global community , there 's something about this third way raga that is making my heart sing .
what intrigues me most is how women are doing this , despite a set of paradoxes that are both frustrating and fascinating .
why is it that women are , on the one hand , viciously oppressed by cultural practices , and yet at the same time , are the preservers of cultures in most societies ?
is the hijab or the headscarf a symbol of submission or resistance ?
when so many women and girls are beaten , raped , maimed on a daily basis in the name of all kinds of causes -- honor , religion , nationality -- what allows women to replant trees , to rebuild societies , to lead radical , non-violent movements for social change ?
is it different women who are doing the preserving and the radicalizing ?
or are they one and the same ?
are we guilty , as chimamanda adichie reminded us at the ted conference in oxford , of assuming that there is a single story of women 's struggles for their rights while there are , in fact , many ?
and what , if anything , do men have to do with it ?
much of my life has been a quest to get some answers to these questions .
it 's taken me across the globe and introduced me to some amazing people .
in the process , i 've gathered a few fragments that help me shed some light on this puzzle .
among those who 've helped open my eyes to a third way are : a devout muslim in afghanistan , a group of harmonizing lesbians in croatia and a taboo breaker in liberia .
i 'm indebted to them , as i am to my parents , who for some set of misdemeanors in their last life , were blessed with three daughters in this one .
and for reasons equally unclear to me , seem to be inordinately proud of the three of us .
i was born and raised here in india , and i learned from an early age to be deeply suspicious of the aunties and uncles who would bend down , pat us on the head and then say to my parents with no problem at all , " poor things . you only have three daughters .
but you 're young , you could still try again . "
my sense of outrage about women 's rights was brought to a boil when i was about 11 .
my aunt , an incredibly articulate and brilliant woman , was widowed early .
a flock of relatives descended on her .
they took off her colorful sari .
they made her wear a white one .
they wiped her bindi off her forehead .
they broke her bangles .
her daughter , rani , a few years older than me , sat in her lap bewildered , not knowing what had happened to the confident woman she once knew as her mother .
late that night , i heard my mother begging my father , " please do something ramu . can n't you intervene ? "
and my father , in a low voice , muttering , " i 'm just the youngest brother , there 's nothing i can do .
this is tradition . "
that 's the night i learned the rules about what it means to be female in this world .
women do n't make those rules , but they define us , and they define our opportunities and our chances .
and men are affected by those rules too .
my father , who had fought in three wars , could not save his own sister from this suffering .
by 18 , under the excellent tutelage of my mother , i was therefore , as you might expect , defiantly feminist .
on the streets chanting , " [ hindi ] [ hindi ] we are the women of india .
we are not flowers , we are sparks of change . "
by the time i got to beijing in 1995 , it was clear to me , the only way to achieve gender equality was to overturn centuries of oppressive tradition .
soon after i returned from beijing , i leapt at the chance to work for this wonderful organization , founded by women , to support women 's rights organizations around the globe .
but barely six months into my new job , i met a woman who forced me to challenge all my assumptions .
her name is sakena yacoobi .
she walked into my office at a time when no one knew where afghanistan was in the united states .
she said to me , " it is not about the burka . "
she was the most determined advocate for women 's rights i had ever heard .
she told me women were running underground schools in her communities inside afghanistan , and that her organization , the afghan institute of learning , had started a school in pakistan .
she said , " the first thing anyone who is a muslim knows is that the koran requires and strongly supports literacy .
the prophet wanted every believer to be able to read the koran for themselves . "
had i heard right ?
was a women 's rights advocate invoking religion ?
but sakena defies labels .
she always wears a headscarf , but i 've walked alongside with her on a beach with her long hair flying in the breeze .
she starts every lecture with a prayer , but she 's a single , feisty , financially independent woman in a country where girls are married off at the age of 12 .
she is also immensely pragmatic .
" this headscarf and these clothes , " she says , " give me the freedom to do what i need to do to speak to those whose support and assistance are critical for this work .
when i had to open the school in the refugee camp , i went to see the imam .
i told him , ' i 'm a believer , and women and children in these terrible conditions need their faith to survive . ' " she smiles slyly .
" he was flattered .
he began to come twice a week to my center because women could not go to the mosque .
and after he would leave , women and girls would stay behind .
we began with a small literacy class to read the koran , then a math class , then an english class , then computer classes .
in a few weeks , everyone in the refugee camp was in our classes . "
sakena is a teacher at a time when to educate women is a dangerous business in afghanistan .
she is on the taliban 's hit list .
i worry about her every time she travels across that country .
she shrugs when i ask her about safety .
" kavita jaan , we cannot allow ourselves to be afraid .
look at those young girls who go back to school when acid is thrown in their face . "
and i smile , and i nod , realizing i 'm watching women and girls using their own religious traditions and practices , turning them into instruments of opposition and opportunity .
their path is their own and it looks towards an afghanistan that will be different .
being different is something the women of lesbor in zagreb , croatia know all too well .
to be a lesbian , a dyke , a homosexual in most parts of the world , including right here in our country , india , is to occupy a place of immense discomfort and extreme prejudice .
in post-conflict societies like croatia , where a hyper - nationalism and religiosity have created an environment unbearable for anyone who might be considered a social outcast .
so enter a group of out dykes , young women who love the old music that once spread across that region from macedonia to bosnia , from serbia to slovenia .
these folk singers met at college at a gender studies program .
many are in their 20s , some are mothers .
many have struggled to come out to their communities , in families whose religious beliefs make it hard to accept that their daughters are not sick , just queer .
as leah , one of the founders of the group , says , " i like traditional music very much .
i also like rock and roll .
so lesbor , we blend the two .
i see traditional music like a kind of rebellion , in which people can really speak their voice , especially traditional songs from other parts of the former yugoslav republic .
after the war , lots of these songs were lost , but they are a part of our childhood and our history , and we should not forget them . "
improbably , this lgbt singing choir has demonstrated how women are investing in tradition to create change , like alchemists turning discord into harmony .
their repertoire includes the croatian national anthem , a bosnian love song and serbian duets .
and , leah adds with a grin , " kavita , we especially are proud of our christmas music , because it shows we are open to religious practices even though catholic church hates us lgbt . "
their concerts draw from their own communities , yes , but also from an older generation : a generation that might be suspicious of homosexuality , but is nostalgic for its own music and the past it represents .
one father , who had initially balked at his daughter coming out in such a choir , now writes songs for them .
in the middle ages , troubadours would travel across the land singing their tales and sharing their verses : lesbor travels through the balkans like this , singing , connecting people divided by religion , nationality and language .
bosnians , croats and serbs find a rare shared space of pride in their history , and lesbor reminds them that the songs one group often claims as theirs alone really belong to them all .
yesterday , mallika sarabhai showed us that music can create a world more accepting of difference than the one we have been given .
the world layma bowie was given was a world at war .
liberia had been torn apart by civil strife for decades .
layma was not an activist , she was a mother of three .
but she was sick with worry : she worried her son would be abducted and taken off to be a child soldier , she worried her daughters would be raped , she worried for their lives .
one night , she had a dream .
she dreamt she and thousands of other women ended the bloodshed .
the next morning at church , she asked others how they felt .
they were all tired of the fighting .
we need peace , and we need our leaders to know we will not rest until there is peace .
among layma 's friends was a policewoman who was muslim .
she promised to raise the issue with her community .
at the next friday sermon , the women who were sitting in the side room of the mosque began to share their distress at the state of affairs .
" what does it matter ? " they said , " a bullet does n't distinguish between a muslim and a christian . "
this small group of women , determined to bring an end to the war , and they chose to use their traditions to make a point : liberian women usually wear lots of jewelry and colorful clothing .
but no , for the protest , they dressed all in white , no makeup .
as layma said , " we wore the white saying we were out for peace . "
they stood on the side of the road on which charles taylor 's motorcade passed every day .
they stood for weeks -- first just 10 , then 20 , then 50 , then hundreds of women -- wearing white , singing , dancing , saying they were out for peace .
eventually , opposing forces in liberia were pushed to hold peace talks in ghana .
the peace talks dragged on and on and on .
layma and her sisters had had enough .
with their remaining funds , they took a small group of women down to the venue of the peace talks and they surrounded the building .
in a now famous cnn clip , you can see them sitting on the ground , their arms linked .
we know this in india . it 's called a [ hindi ] .
then things get tense .
the police are called in to physically remove the women .
as the senior officer approaches with a baton , layma stands up with deliberation , reaches her arms up over her head , and begins , very slowly , to untie her headdress that covers her hair .
you can see the policeman 's face .
he looks embarrassed . he backs away .
and the next thing you know , the police have disappeared .
layma said to me later , " it 's a taboo , you know , in west africa .
if an older woman undresses in front of a man because she wants to , the man 's family is cursed . "
she said , " i do n't know if he did it because he believed , but he knew we were not going to leave .
we were not going to leave until the peace accord was signed . "
and the peace accord was signed .
and the women of liberia then mobilized in support of ellen johnson sirleaf , a woman who broke a few taboos herself becoming the first elected woman head of state in africa in years .
when she made her presidential address , she acknowledged these brave women of liberia who allowed her to win against a football star -- that 's soccer for you americans -- no less .
women like sakena and leah and layma have humbled me and changed me and made me realize that i should not be so quick to jump to assumptions of any kind .
they 've also saved me from my righteous anger by offering insights into this third way .
a filipina activist once said to me , " how do you cook a rice cake ?
with heat from the bottom and heat from the top . "
the protests , the marches , the uncompromising position that women 's rights are human rights , full stop .
that 's the heat from the bottom .
that 's malcolm x and the suffragists and gay pride parades .
but we also need the heat from the top .
and in most parts of the world , that top is still controlled by men .
so to paraphrase marx : women make change , but not in circumstances of their own choosing .
they have to negotiate .
they have to subvert tradition that once silenced them in order to give voice to new aspirations .
and they need allies from their communities .
allies like the imam , allies like the father who now writes songs for a lesbian group in croatia , allies like the policeman who honored a taboo and backed away , allies like my father , who could n't help his sister but has helped three daughters pursue their dreams .
maybe this is because feminism , unlike almost every other social movement , is not a struggle against a distinct oppressor -- it 's not the ruling class or the occupiers or the colonizers -- it 's against a deeply held set of beliefs and assumptions that we women , far too often , hold ourselves .
and perhaps this is the ultimate gift of feminism , that the personal is in fact the political .
so that , as eleanor roosevelt said once of human rights , the same is true of gender equality : that it starts in small places , close to home .
on the streets , yes , but also in negotiations at the kitchen table and in the marital bed and in relationships between lovers and parents and sisters and friends .
and then you realize that by integrating aspects of tradition and community into their struggles , women like sakena and leah and layma -- but also women like sonia gandhi here in india and michelle bachelet in chile and shirin ebadi in iran -- are doing something else .
they 're challenging the very notion of western models of development .
they are saying , we do n't have to be like you to make change .
we can wear a sari or a hijab or pants or a boubou , and we can be party leaders and presidents and human rights lawyers .
we can use our tradition to navigate change .
we can demilitarize societies and pour resources , instead , into reservoirs of genuine security .
it is in these little stories , these individual stories , that i see a radical epic being written by women around the world .
it is in these threads that are being woven into a resilient fabric that will sustain communities , that i find hope .
and if my heart is singing , it 's because in these little fragments , every now and again , you catch a glimpse of a whole , of a whole new world .
and she is definitely on her way .
thank you .
kathryn schulz : on being wrong 
 most of us will do anything to avoid being wrong . but what if we 're wrong about that ? " wrongologist " kathryn schulz makes a compelling case for not just admitting but embracing our fallibility .
so it 's 1995 , i 'm in college , and a friend and i go on a road trip from providence , rhode island to portland , oregon .
and you know , we 're young and unemployed , so we do the whole thing on back roads through state parks and national forests -- basically the longest route we can possibly take .
and somewhere in the middle of south dakota , i turn to my friend and i ask her a question that 's been bothering me for 2,000 miles .
" what 's up with the chinese character i keep seeing by the side of the road ? "
my friend looks at me totally blankly .
there 's actually a gentleman in the front row who 's doing a perfect imitation of her look .
and i 'm like , " you know , all the signs we keep seeing with the chinese character on them . "
she just stares at me for a few moments , and then she cracks up , because she figures out what i 'm talking about .
and what i 'm talking about is this .
right , the famous chinese character for picnic area .
i 've spent the last five years of my life thinking about situations exactly like this -- why we sometimes misunderstand the signs around us , and how we behave when that happens , and what all of this can tell us about human nature .
in other words , as you heard chris say , i 've spent the last five years thinking about being wrong .
this might strike you as a strange career move , but it actually has one great advantage : no job competition .
in fact , most of us do everything we can to avoid thinking about being wrong , or at least to avoid thinking about the possibility that we ourselves are wrong .
we get it in the abstract .
we all know everybody in this room makes mistakes .
the human species , in general , is fallible -- okay fine .
but when it comes down to me , right now , to all the beliefs i hold , here in the present tense , suddenly all of this abstract appreciation of fallibility goes out the window -- and i can n't actually think of anything i 'm wrong about .
and the thing is , the present tense is where we live .
we go to meetings in the present tense ; we go on family vacations in the present tense ; we go to the polls and vote in the present tense .
so effectively , we all kind of wind up traveling through life , trapped in this little bubble of feeling very right about everything .
i think this is a problem .
i think it 's a problem for each of us as individuals , in our personal and professional lives , and i think it 's a problem for all of us collectively as a culture .
so what i want to do today is , first of all , talk about why we get stuck inside this feeling of being right .
and second , why it 's such a problem .
and finally , i want to convince you that it is possible to step outside of that feeling and that if you can do so , it is the single greatest moral , intellectual and creative leap you can make .
so why do we get stuck in this feeling of being right ?
one reason , actually , has to do with a feeling of being wrong .
so let me ask you guys something -- or actually , let me ask you guys something , because you 're right here : how does it feel -- emotionally -- how does it feel to be wrong ?
dreadful . thumbs down .
embarrassing . okay , wonderful , great .
dreadful , thumbs down , embarrassing -- thank you , these are great answers , but they 're answers to a different question .
you guys are answering the question : how does it feel to realize you 're wrong ?
realizing you 're wrong can feel like all of that and a lot of other things , right ?
i mean it can be devastating , it can be revelatory , it can actually be quite funny , like my stupid chinese character mistake .
but just being wrong does n't feel like anything .
i 'll give you an analogy .
do you remember that loony tunes cartoon where there 's this pathetic coyote who 's always chasing and never catching a roadrunner ?
in pretty much every episode of this cartoon , there 's a moment where the coyote is chasing the roadrunner and the roadrunner runs off a cliff , which is fine -- he 's a bird , he can fly .
but the thing is , the coyote runs off the cliff right after him .
and what 's funny -- at least if you 're six years old -- is that the coyote 's totally fine too .
he just keeps running -- right up until the moment that he looks down and realizes that he 's in mid - air .
that 's when he falls .
when we 're wrong about something -- not when we realize it , but before that -- we 're like that coyote after he 's gone off the cliff and before he looks down .
you know , we 're already wrong , we 're already in trouble , but we feel like we 're on solid ground .
so i should actually correct something i said a moment ago .
it does feel like something to be wrong ; it feels like being right .
so this is one reason , a structural reason , why we get stuck inside this feeling of rightness .
i call this error blindness .
most of the time , we do n't have any kind of internal cue to let us know that we 're wrong about something , until it 's too late .
but there 's a second reason that we get stuck inside this feeling as well -- and this one is cultural .
think back for a moment to elementary school .
you 're sitting there in class , and your teacher is handing back quiz papers , and one of them looks like this .
this is not mine , by the way .
so there you are in grade school , and you know exactly what to think about the kid who got this paper .
it 's the dumb kid , the troublemaker , the one who never does his homework .
so by the time you are nine years old , you 've already learned , first of all , that people who get stuff wrong are lazy , irresponsible dimwits -- and second of all , that the way to succeed in life is to never make any mistakes .
we learn these really bad lessons really well .
and a lot of us -- and i suspect , especially a lot of us in this room -- deal with them by just becoming perfect little a students , perfectionists , over - achievers .
right , mr. cfo , astrophysicist , ultra - marathoner ?
you 're all cfo , astrophysicists , ultra - marathoners , it turns out .
okay , so fine .
except that then we freak out at the possibility that we 've gotten something wrong .
because according to this , getting something wrong means there 's something wrong with us .
so we just insist that we 're right , because it makes us feel smart and responsible and virtuous and safe .
so let me tell you a story .
a couple of years ago , a woman comes into beth israel deaconess medical center for a surgery .
beth israel 's in boston .
it 's the teaching hospital for harvard -- one of the best hospitals in the country .
so this woman comes in and she 's taken into the operating room .
she 's anesthetized , the surgeon does his thing -- stitches her back up , sends her out to the recovery room .
everything seems to have gone fine .
and she wakes up , and she looks down at herself , and she says , " why is the wrong side of my body in bandages ? "
well the wrong side of her body is in bandages because the surgeon has performed a major operation on her left leg instead of her right one .
when the vice president for health care quality at beth israel spoke about this incident , he said something very interesting .
he said , " for whatever reason , the surgeon simply felt that he was on the correct side of the patient . "
the point of this story is that trusting too much in the feeling of being on the correct side of anything can be very dangerous .
this internal sense of rightness that we all experience so often is not a reliable guide to what is actually going on in the external world .
and when we act like it is , and we stop entertaining the possibility that we could be wrong , well that 's when we end up doing things like dumping 200 million gallons of oil into the gulf of mexico , or torpedoing the global economy .
so this is a huge practical problem .
but it 's also a huge social problem .
think for a moment about what it means to feel right .
it means that you think that your beliefs just perfectly reflect reality .
and when you feel that way , you 've got a problem to solve , which is , how are you going to explain all of those people who disagree with you ?
it turns out , most of us explain those people the same way , by resorting to a series of unfortunate assumptions .
the first thing we usually do when someone disagrees with us is we just assume they 're ignorant .
they do n't have access to the same information that we do , and when we generously share that information with them , they 're going to see the light and come on over to our team .
when that does n't work , when it turns out those people have all the same facts that we do and they still disagree with us , then we move on to a second assumption , which is that they 're idiots .
they have all the right pieces of the puzzle , and they are too moronic to put them together correctly .
and when that does n't work , when it turns out that people who disagree with us have all the same facts we do and are actually pretty smart , then we move on to a third assumption : they know the truth , and they are deliberately distorting it for their own malevolent purposes .
so this is a catastrophe .
this attachment to our own rightness keeps us from preventing mistakes when we absolutely need to and causes us to treat each other terribly .
but to me , what 's most baffling and most tragic about this is that it misses the whole point of being human .
it 's like we want to imagine that our minds are just these perfectly translucent windows and we just gaze out of them and describe the world as it unfolds .
and we want everybody else to gaze out of the same window and see the exact same thing .
that is not true , and if it were , life would be incredibly boring .
the miracle of your mind is n't that you can see the world as it is .
it 's that you can see the world as it is n't .
we can remember the past , and we can think about the future , and we can imagine what it 's like to be some other person in some other place .
and we all do this a little differently , which is why we can all look up at the same night sky and see this and also this and also this .
and yeah , it is also why we get things wrong .
1,200 years before descartes said his famous thing about " i think therefore i am , " this guy , st . augustine , sat down and wrote " fallor ergo sum " -- " i err therefore i am . "
augustine understood that our capacity to screw up , it 's not some kind of embarrassing defect in the human system , something we can eradicate or overcome .
it 's totally fundamental to who we are .
because , unlike god , we do n't really know what 's going on out there .
and unlike all of the other animals , we are obsessed with trying to figure it out .
to me , this obsession is the source and root of all of our productivity and creativity .
last year , for various reasons , i found myself listening to a lot of episodes of the public radio show this american life .
and so i 'm listening and i 'm listening , and at some point , i start feeling like all the stories are about being wrong .
and my first thought was , " i 've lost it .
i 've become the crazy wrongness lady .
i just imagined it everywhere , " which has happened .
but a couple of months later , i actually had a chance to interview ira glass , who 's the host of the show .
and i mentioned this to him , and he was like , " no actually , that 's true .
in fact , " he says , " as a staff , we joke that every single episode of our show has the same crypto - theme .
and the crypto - theme is : ' i thought this one thing was going to happen and something else happened instead . ' and the thing is , " says ira glass , " we need this .
we need these moments of surprise and reversal and wrongness to make these stories work . "
and for the rest of us , audience members , as listeners , as readers , we eat this stuff up .
we love things like plot twists and red herrings and surprise endings .
when it comes to our stories , we love being wrong .
but , you know , our stories are like this because our lives are like this .
we think this one thing is going to happen and something else happens instead .
george bush thought he was going to invade iraq , find a bunch of weapons of mass destruction , liberate the people and bring democracy to the middle east .
and something else happened instead .
and hosni mubarak thought he was going to be the dictator of egypt for the rest of his life , until he got too old or too sick and could pass the reigns of power onto his son .
and something else happened instead .
and maybe you thought you were going to grow up and marry your high school sweetheart and move back to your hometown and raise a bunch of kids together .
and something else happened instead .
and i have to tell you that i thought i was writing an incredibly nerdy book about a subject everybody hates for an audience that would never materialize .
and something else happened instead .
i mean , this is life .
for good and for ill , we generate these incredible stories about the world around us , and then the world turns around and astonishes us .
no offense , but this entire conference is an unbelievable monument to our capacity to get stuff wrong .
we just spent an entire week talking about innovations and advancements and improvements , but you know why we need all of those innovations and advancements and improvements ?
because half the stuff that 's the most mind - boggling and world-altering -- ted 1998 -- eh .
did n't really work out that way , did it ?
where 's my jet pack , chris ?
so here we are again .
and that 's how it goes .
we come up with another idea .
we tell another story .
we hold another conference .
the theme of this one , as you guys have now heard seven million times , is the rediscovery of wonder .
and to me , if you really want to rediscover wonder , you need to step outside of that tiny , terrified space of rightness and look around at each other and look out at the vastness and complexity and mystery of the universe and be able to say , " wow , i do n't know .
maybe i 'm wrong . "
thank you .
thank you guys .
leymah gbowee : unlock the intelligence , passion , greatness of girls 
 nobel peace prize winner leymah gbowee has two powerful stories to tell -- of her own life 's transformation , and of the untapped potential of girls around the world . can we transform the world by unlocking the greatness of girls ?
many times i go around the world to speak , and people ask me questions about the challenges , my moments , some of my regrets .
1998 : a single mother of four , three months after the birth of my fourth child , i went to do a job as a research assistant .
i went to northern liberia .
and as part of the work , the village would give you lodgings .
and they gave me lodging with a single mother and her daughter .
this girl happened to be the only girl in the entire village who had made it to the ninth grade .
she was the laughing stock of the community .
her mother was often told by other women , " you and your child will die poor . "
after two weeks of working in that village , it was time to go back .
the mother came to me , knelt down , and said , " leymah , take my daughter .
i wish for her to be a nurse . "
dirt poor , living in the home with my parents , i could n't afford to .
with tears in my eyes , i said , " no . "
two months later , i go to another village on the same assignment and they asked me to live with the village chief .
the women 's chief of the village has this little girl , fair color like me , totally dirty .
and all day she walked around only in her underwear .
when i asked , " who is that ? "
she said , " that 's wei .
the meaning of her name is pig .
her mother died while giving birth to her , and no one had any idea who her father was . "
for two weeks , she became my companion , slept with me .
i bought her used clothes and bought her her first doll .
the night before i left , she came to the room and said , " leymah , do n't leave me here .
i wish to go with you .
i wish to go to school . "
dirt poor , no money , living with my parents , i again said , " no . "
two months later , both of those villages fell into another war .
till today , i have no idea where those two girls are .
fast - forward , 2004 : in the peak of our activism , the minister of gender liberia called me and said , " leymah , i have a nine - year - old for you .
i want you to bring her home because we do n't have safe homes . "
the story of this little girl : she had been raped by her paternal grandfather every day for six months .
she came to me bloated , very pale .
every night i 'd come from work and lie on the cold floor .
she 'd lie beside me and say , " auntie , i wish to be well .
i wish to go to school . "
2010 : a young woman stands before president sirleaf and gives her testimony of how she and her siblings live together , their father and mother died during the war .
she 's 19 ; her dream is to go to college to be able to support them .
she 's highly athletic .
one of the things that happens is that she applies for a scholarship .
full scholarship . she gets it .
her dream of going to school , her wish of being educated , is finally here .
she goes to school on the first day .
the director of sports who 's responsible for getting her into the program asks her to come out of class .
and for the next three years , her fate will be having sex with him every day , as a favor for getting her in school .
globally , we have policies , international instruments , work leaders .
great people have made commitments -- we will protect our children from want and from fear .
the u.n. has the convention on the rights of the child .
countries like america , we 've heard things like no child left behind .
other countries come with different things .
there is a millennium development called three that focuses on girls .
all of these great works by great people aimed at getting young people to where we want to get them globally , i think , has failed .
in liberia , for example , the teenage pregnancy rate is three to every 10 girls .
teen prostitution is at its peak .
in one community , we 're told , you wake up in the morning and see used condoms like used chewing gum paper .
girls as young as 12 being prostituted for less than a dollar a night .
it 's disheartening , it 's sad .
and then someone asked me , just before my tedtalk , a few days ago , " so where is the hope ? "
several years ago , a few friends of mine decided we needed to bridge the disconnect between our generation and the generation of young women .
it 's not enough to say you have two nobel laureates from the republic of liberia when your girls ' kids are totally out there and no hope , or seemingly no hope .
we created a space called the young girls transformative project .
we go into rural communities and all we do , like has been done in this room , is create the space .
when these girls sit , you unlock intelligence , you unlock passion , you unlock commitment , you unlock focus , you unlock great leaders .
today , we 've worked with over 300 .
and some of those girls who walked in the room very shy have taken bold steps , as young mothers , to go out there and advocate for the rights of other young women .
one young woman i met , teen mother of four , never thought about finishing high school , graduated successfully ; never thought about going to college , enrolled in college .
one day she said to me , " my wish is to finish college and be able to support my children . "
she 's at a place where she can n't find money to go to school .
she sells water , sells soft drinks and sells recharge cards for cellphones .
and you would think she would take that money and put it back into her education .
juanita is her name .
she takes that money and finds single mothers in her community to send back to school .
says , " leymah , my wish is to be educated .
and if i can n't be educated , when i see some of my sisters being educated , my wish has been fulfilled .
i wish for a better life .
i wish for food for my children .
i wish that sexual abuse and exploitation in schools would stop . "
this is the dream of the african girl .
several years ago , there was one african girl .
this girl had a son who wished for a piece of doughnut because he was extremely hungry .
angry , frustrated , really upset about the state of her society and the state of her children , this young girl started a movement , a movement of ordinary women banding together to build peace .
i will fulfill the wish .
this is another african girl 's wish .
i failed to fulfill the wish of those two girls .
i failed to do this .
these were the things that were going through the head of this other young woman -- i failed , i failed , i failed .
so i will do this .
women came out , protested a brutal dictator , fearlessly spoke .
not only did the wish of a piece of doughnut come true , the wish of peace came true .
this young woman wished also to go to school .
she went to school .
this young woman wished for other things to happen , it happened for her .
today , this young woman is me , a nobel laureate .
i 'm now on a journey to fulfill the wish , in my tiny capacity , of little african girls -- the wish of being educated .
we set up a foundation .
we 're giving full four - year scholarships to girls from villages that we see with potential .
i do n't have much to ask of you .
i 've also been to places in this u.s. , and i know that girls in this country also have wishes , a wish for a better life somewhere in the bronx , a wish for a better life somewhere in downtown l.a. , a wish for a better life somewhere in texas , a wish for a better life somewhere in new york , a wish for a better life somewhere in new jersey .
will you journey with me to help that girl , be it an african girl or an american girl or a japanese girl , fulfill her wish , fulfill her dream , achieve that dream ?
because all of these great innovators and inventors that we 've talked to and seen over the last few days are also sitting in tiny corners in different parts of the world , and all they 're asking us to do is create that space to unlock the intelligence , unlock the passion , unlock all of the great things that they hold within themselves .
let 's journey together . let 's journey together .
thank you .
thank you so much .
right now in liberia , what do you see as the main issue that troubles you ?
lg : i 've been asked to lead the liberian reconciliation initiative .
as part of my work , i 'm doing these tours in different villages and towns -- 13 , 15 hours on dirt roads -- and there is no community that i 've gone into that i have n't seen intelligent girls .
but sadly , the vision of a great future , or the dream of a great future , is just a dream , because you have all of these vices .
teen pregnancy , like i said , is epidemic .
so what troubles me is that i was at that place and somehow i 'm at this place , and i just do n't want to be the only one at this place .
i 'm looking for ways for other girls to be with me .
i want to look back 20 years from now and see that there 's another liberian girl , ghanaian girl , nigerian girl , ethiopian girl standing on this ted stage .
and maybe , just maybe , saying , " because of that nobel laureate i 'm here today . "
so i 'm troubled when i see them like there 's no hope .
but i 'm also not pessimistic , because i know it does n't take a lot to get them charged up .
and in the last year , tell us one hopeful thing that you 've seen happening .
lg : i can tell you many hopeful things that i 've seen happening .
but in the last year , where president sirleaf comes from , her village , we went there to work with these girls .
and we could not find 25 girls in high school .
all of these girls went to the gold mine , and they were predominantly prostitutes doing other things .
we took 50 of those girls and we worked with them .
and this was at the beginning of elections .
this is one place where women were never -- even the older ones barely sat in the circle with the men .
these girls banded together and formed a group and launched a campaign for voter registration .
this is a real rural village .
and the theme they used was : " even pretty girls vote . "
they were able to mobilize young women .
but not only did they do that , they went to those who were running for seats to ask them , " what is it that you will give the girls of this community when you win ? "
and one of the guys who already had a seat was very -- because liberia has one of the strongest rape laws , and he was one of those really fighting in parliament to overturn that law because he called it barbaric .
rape is not barbaric , but the law , he said , was barbaric .
and when the girls started engaging him , he was very hostile towards them .
these little girls turned to him and said , " we will vote you out of office . "
he 's out of office today .
leymah , thank you . thank you so much for coming to ted .
lg : you 're welcome .
leslie t . chang : the voices of china 's workers 
 in the ongoing debate about globalization , what 's been missing is the voices of workers -- the millions of people who migrate to factories in china and other emerging countries to make goods sold all over the world . reporter leslie t . chang sought out women who work in one of china 's booming megacities , and tells their stories .
hi . so i 'd like to talk a little bit about the people who make the things we use every day : our shoes , our handbags , our computers and cell phones .
now , this is a conversation that often calls up a lot of guilt .
imagine the teenage farm girl who makes less than a dollar an hour stitching your running shoes , or the young chinese man who jumps off a rooftop after working overtime assembling your ipad .
we , the beneficiaries of globalization , seem to exploit these victims with every purchase we make , and the injustice feels embedded in the products themselves .
after all , what 's wrong with a world in which a worker on an iphone assembly line can n't even afford to buy one ?
it 's taken for granted that chinese factories are oppressive , and that it 's our desire for cheap goods that makes them so .
so , this simple narrative equating western demand and chinese suffering is appealing , especially at a time when many of us already feel guilty about our impact on the world , but it 's also inaccurate and disrespectful .
we must be peculiarly self-obsessed to imagine that we have the power to drive tens of millions of people on the other side of the world to migrate and suffer in such terrible ways .
in fact , china makes goods for markets all over the world , including its own , thanks to a combination of factors : its low costs , its large and educated workforce , and a flexible manufacturing system that responds quickly to market demands .
by focusing so much on ourselves and our gadgets , we have rendered the individuals on the other end into invisibility , as tiny and interchangeable as the parts of a mobile phone .
chinese workers are not forced into factories because of our insatiable desire for ipods .
they choose to leave their homes in order to earn money , to learn new skills , and to see the world .
in the ongoing debate about globalization , what 's been missing is the voices of the workers themselves .
here are a few .
bao yongxiu : " my mother tells me to come home and get married , but if i marry now , before i have fully developed myself , i can only marry an ordinary worker , so i 'm not in a rush . "
chen ying : " when i went home for the new year , everyone said i had changed . they asked me , what did you do that you have changed so much ?
i told them that i studied and worked hard . if you tell them more , they won n't understand anyway . "
wu chunming : " even if i make a lot of money , it won n't satisfy me .
just to make money is not enough meaning in life . "
xiao jin : " now , after i get off work , i study english , because in the future , our customers won n't be only chinese , so we must learn more languages . "
all of these speakers , by the way , are young women , 18 or 19 years old .
so i spent two years getting to know assembly line workers like these in the south china factory city called dongguan .
certain subjects came up over and over : how much money they made , what kind of husband they hoped to marry , whether they should jump to another factory or stay where they were .
other subjects came up almost never , including living conditions that to me looked close to prison life : 10 or 15 workers in one room , 50 people sharing a single bathroom , days and nights ruled by the factory clock .
everyone they knew lived in similar circumstances , and it was still better than the dormitories and homes of rural china .
the workers rarely spoke about the products they made , and they often had great difficulty explaining what exactly they did .
when i asked lu qingmin , the young woman i got to know best , what exactly she did on the factory floor , she said something to me in chinese that sounded like " qiu xi . "
only much later did i realize that she had been saying " qc , " or quality control .
she could n't even tell me what she did on the factory floor .
all she could do was parrot a garbled abbreviation in a language she did n't even understand .
karl marx saw this as the tragedy of capitalism , the alienation of the worker from the product of his labor .
unlike , say , a traditional maker of shoes or cabinets , the worker in an industrial factory has no control , no pleasure , and no true satisfaction or understanding in her own work .
but like so many theories that marx arrived at sitting in the reading room of the british museum , he got this one wrong .
just because a person spends her time making a piece of something does not mean that she becomes that , a piece of something .
what she does with the money she earns , what she learns in that place , and how it changes her , these are the things that matter .
what a factory makes is never the point , and the workers could not care less who buys their products .
journalistic coverage of chinese factories , on the other hand , plays up this relationship between the workers and the products they make .
many articles calculate : how long would it take for this worker to work in order to earn enough money to buy what he 's making ?
for example , an entry - level - line assembly line worker in china in an iphone plant would have to shell out two and a half months ' wages for an iphone .
but how meaningful is this calculation , really ?
for example , i recently wrote an article in the new yorker magazine , but i can n't afford to buy an ad in it .
but , who cares ? i do n't want an ad in the new yorker , and most of these workers do n't really want iphones .
their calculations are different .
how long should i stay in this factory ?
how much money can i save ?
how much will it take to buy an apartment or a car , to get married , or to put my child through school ?
the workers i got to know had a curiously abstract relationship with the product of their labor .
about a year after i met lu qingmin , or min , she invited me home to her family village for the chinese new year .
on the train home , she gave me a present : a coach brand change purse with brown leather trim .
i thanked her , assuming it was fake , like almost everything else for sale in dongguan .
after we got home , min gave her mother another present : a pink dooney ; bourke handbag , and a few nights later , her sister was showing off a maroon lesportsac shoulder bag .
slowly it was dawning on me that these handbags were made by their factory , and every single one of them was authentic .
min 's sister said to her parents , " in america , this bag sells for 320 dollars . "
her parents , who are both farmers , looked on , speechless .
" and that 's not all -- coach is coming out with a new line , 2191 , " she said . " one bag will sell for 6,000 . "
she paused and said , " i do n't know if that 's 6,000 yuan or 6,000 american dollars , but anyway , it 's 6,000 . "
min 's sister 's boyfriend , who had traveled home with her for the new year , said , " it does n't look like it 's worth that much . "
min 's sister turned to him and said , " some people actually understand these things . you do n't understand shit . "
in min 's world , the coach bags had a curious currency .
they were n't exactly worthless , but they were nothing close to the actual value , because almost no one they knew wanted to buy one , or knew how much it was worth .
once , when min 's older sister 's friend got married , she brought a handbag along as a wedding present .
another time , after min had already left the handbag factory , her younger sister came to visit , bringing two coach signature handbags as gifts .
i looked in the zippered pocket of one , and i found a printed card in english , which read , " an american classic .
in 1941 , the burnished patina of an all - american baseball glove inspired the founder of coach to create a new collection of handbags from the same luxuriously soft gloved - hand leather .
six skilled leatherworkers crafted 12 signature handbags with perfect proportions and a timeless flair .
they were fresh , functional , and women everywhere adored them . a new american classic was born . "
i wonder what karl marx would have made of min and her sisters .
their relationship with the product of their labor was more complicated , surprising and funny than he could have imagined .
and yet , his view of the world persists , and our tendency to see the workers as faceless masses , to imagine that we can know what they 're really thinking .
the first time i met min , she had just turned 18 and quit her first job on the assembly line of an electronics factory .
over the next two years , i watched as she switched jobs five times , eventually landing a lucrative post in the purchasing department of a hardware factory .
later , she married a fellow migrant worker , moved with him to his village , gave birth to two daughters , and saved enough money to buy a secondhand buick for herself and an apartment for her parents .
she recently returned to dongguan on her own to take a job in a factory that makes construction cranes , temporarily leaving her husband and children back in the village .
in a recent email to me , she explained , " a person should have some ambition while she is young so that in old age she can look back on her life and feel that it was not lived to no purpose . "
across china , there are 150 million workers like her , one third of them women , who have left their villages to work in the factories , the hotels , the restaurants and the construction sites of the big cities .
together , they make up the largest migration in history , and it is globalization , this chain that begins in a chinese farming village and ends with iphones in our pockets and nikes on our feet and coach handbags on our arms that has changed the way these millions of people work and marry and live and think .
very few of them would want to go back to the way things used to be .
when i first went to dongguan , i worried that it would be depressing to spend so much time with workers .
i also worried that nothing would ever happen to them , or that they would have nothing to say to me .
instead , i found young women who were smart and funny and brave and generous .
by opening up their lives to me , they taught me so much about factories and about china and about how to live in the world .
this is the coach purse that min gave me on the train home to visit her family .
i keep it with me to remind me of the ties that tie me to the young women i wrote about , ties that are not economic but personal in nature , measured not in money but in memories .
this purse is also a reminder that the things that you imagine , sitting in your office or in the library , are not how you find them when you actually go out into the world .
thank you .
thank you , leslie , that was an insight that a lot of us have n't had before .
but i 'm curious . if you had a minute , say , with apple 's head of manufacturing , what would you say ?
leslie chang : one minute ?
one minute .
lc : you know , what really impressed me about the workers is how much they 're self-motivated , self-driven , resourceful , and the thing that struck me , what they want most is education , to learn , because most of them come from very poor backgrounds .
they usually left school when they were in 7th or 8th grade .
their parents are often illiterate , and then they come to the city , and they , on their own , at night , during the weekends , they 'll take a computer class , they 'll take an english class , and learn really , really rudimentary things , you know , like how to type a document in word , or how to say really simple things in english .
so , if you really want to help these workers , start these small , very focused , very pragmatic classes in these schools , and what 's going to happen is , all your workers are going to move on , but hopefully they 'll move on into higher jobs within apple , and you can help their social mobility and their self-improvement .
when you talk to workers , that 's what they want .
they do not say , " i want better hot water in the showers .
i want a nicer room . i want a tv set . "
i mean , it would be nice to have those things , but that 's not why they 're in the city , and that 's not what they care about .
was there a sense from them of a narrative that things were kind of tough and bad , or was there a narrative of some kind of level of growth , that things over time were getting better ?
lc : oh definitely , definitely . i mean , you know , it was interesting , because i spent basically two years hanging out in this city , dongguan , and over that time , you could see immense change in every person 's life : upward , downward , sideways , but generally upward .
if you spend enough time , it 's upward , and i met people who had moved to the city 10 years ago , and who are now basically urban middle class people , so the trajectory is definitely upward .
it 's just hard to see when you 're suddenly sucked into the city . it looks like everyone 's poor and desperate , but that 's not really how it is .
certainly , the factory conditions are really tough , and it 's nothing you or i would want to do , but from their perspective , where they 're coming from is much worse , and where they 're going is hopefully much better , and i just wanted to give that context of what 's going on in their minds , not what necessarily is going on in yours .
thanks so much for your talk .
thank you very much .
neil macgregor : 2600 years of history in one object 
 a clay cylinder covered in akkadian cuneiform script , damaged and broken , the cyrus cylinder is a powerful symbol of religious tolerance and multi-culturalism . in this enthralling talk neil macgregor , director of the british museum , traces 2600 years of middle eastern history through this single object .
the things we make have one supreme quality -- they live longer than us .
we perish , they survive ; we have one life , they have many lives , and in each life they can mean different things .
which means that , while we all have one biography , they have many .
i want this morning to talk about the story , the biography -- or rather the biographies -- of one particular object , one remarkable thing .
it does n't , i agree , look very much .
it 's about the size of a rugby ball .
it 's made of clay , and it 's been fashioned into a cylinder shape , covered with close writing and then baked dry in the sun .
and as you can see , it 's been knocked about a bit , which is not surprising because it was made two and a half thousand years ago and was dug up in 1879 .
but today , this thing is , i believe , a major player in the politics of the middle east .
and it 's an object with fascinating stories and stories that are by no means over yet .
the story begins in the iran - iraq war and that series of events that culminated in the invasion of iraq by foreign forces , the removal of a despotic ruler and instant regime change .
and i want to begin with one episode from that sequence of events that most of you would be very familiar with , belshazzar 's feast -- because we 're talking about the iran - iraq war of 539 bc .
and the parallels between the events of 539 bc and 2003 and in between are startling .
what you 're looking at is rembrandt 's painting , now in the national gallery in london , illustrating the text from the prophet daniel in the hebrew scriptures .
and you all know roughly the story .
belshazzar , the son of nebuchadnezzar , nebuchadnezzar who 'd conquered israel , sacked jerusalem and captured the people and taken the jews back to babylon .
not only the jews , he 'd taken the temple vessels .
he 'd ransacked , desecrated the temple .
and the great gold vessels of the temple in jerusalem had been taken to babylon .
belshazzar , his son , decides to have a feast .
and in order to make it even more exciting , he added a bit of sacrilege to the rest of the fun , and he brings out the temple vessels .
he 's already at war with the iranians , with the king of persia .
and that night , daniel tells us , at the height of the festivities a hand appeared and wrote on the wall , " you are weighed in the balance and found wanting , and your kingdom is handed over to the medes and the persians . "
and that very night cyrus , king of the persians , entered babylon and the whole regime of belshazzar fell .
it is , of course , a great moment in the history of the jewish people .
it 's a great story . it 's story we all know .
" the writing on the wall " is part of our everyday language .
what happened next was remarkable , and it 's where our cylinder enters the story .
cyrus , king of the persians , has entered babylon without a fight -- the great empire of babylon , which ran from central southern iraq to the mediterranean , falls to cyrus .
and cyrus makes a declaration .
and that is what this cylinder is , the declaration made by the ruler guided by god who had toppled the iraqi despot and was going to bring freedom to the people .
in ringing babylonian -- it was written in babylonian -- he says , " i am cyrus , king of all the universe , the great king , the powerful king , king of babylon , king of the four quarters of the world . "
they 're not shy of hyperbole as you can see .
this is probably the first real press release by a victorious army that we 've got .
and it 's written , as we 'll see in due course , by very skilled p.r. consultants .
so the hyperbole is not actually surprising .
and what is the great king , the powerful king , the king of the four quarters of the world going to do ?
he goes on to say that , having conquered babylon , he will at once let all the peoples that the babylonians -- nebuchadnezzar and belshazzar -- have captured and enslaved go free .
he 'll let them return to their countries .
and more important , he will let them all recover the gods , the statues , the temple vessels that had been confiscated .
all the peoples that the babylonians had repressed and removed will go home , and they 'll take with them their gods .
and they 'll be able to restore their altars and to worship their gods in their own way , in their own place .
this is the decree , this object is the evidence for the fact that the jews , after the exile in babylon , the years they 'd spent sitting by the waters of babylon , weeping when they remembered jerusalem , those jews were allowed to go home .
they were allowed to return to jerusalem and to rebuild the temple .
it 's a central document in jewish history .
and the book of chronicles , the book of ezra in the hebrew scriptures reported in ringing terms .
this is the jewish version of the same story .
" thus said cyrus , king of persia , ' all the kingdoms of the earth have the lord god of heaven given thee , and he has charged me to build him a house in jerusalem .
who is there among you of his people ?
the lord god be with him , and let him go up . ' " " go up " -- aaleh .
the central element , still , of the notion of return , a central part of the life of judaism .
as you all know , that return from exile , the second temple , reshaped judaism .
and that change , that great historic moment , was made possible by cyrus , the king of persia , reported for us in hebrew in scripture and in babylonian in clay .
two great texts , what about the politics ?
what was going on was the fundamental shift in middle eastern history .
the empire of iran , the medes and the persians , united under cyrus , became the first great world empire .
cyrus begins in the 530s bc .
and by the time of his son darius , the whole of the eastern mediterranean is under persian control .
this empire is , in fact , the middle east as we now know it , and it 's what shapes the middle east as we now know it .
it was the largest empire the world had known until then .
much more important , it was the first multicultural , multifaith state on a huge scale .
and it had to be run in a quite new way .
it had to be run in different languages .
the fact that this decree is in babylonian says one thing .
and it had to recognize their different habits , different peoples , different religions , different faiths .
all of those are respected by cyrus .
cyrus sets up a model of how you run a great multinational , multifaith , multicultural society .
and the result of that was an empire that included the areas you see on the screen , and which survived for 200 years of stability until it was shattered by alexander .
it left a dream of the middle east as a unit , and a unit where people of different faiths could live together .
the greek invasions ended that .
and of course , alexander could n't sustain a government and it fragmented .
but what cyrus represented remained absolutely central .
the greek historian xenophon wrote his book " cyropaedia " promoting cyrus as the great ruler .
and throughout european culture afterward , cyrus remained the model .
this is a 16th century image to show you how widespread his veneration actually was .
and xenophon 's book on cyrus on how you ran a diverse society was one of the great textbooks that inspired the founding fathers of the american revolution .
jefferson was a great admirer -- the ideals of cyrus obviously speaking to those 18th century ideals of how you create religious tolerance in a new state .
meanwhile , back in babylon , things had not been going well .
after alexander , the other empires , babylon declines , falls into ruins , and all the traces of the great babylonian empire are lost -- until 1879 when the cylinder is discovered by a british museum exhibition digging in babylon .
and it enters now another story .
it enters that great debate in the middle of the 19th century : are the scriptures reliable ? can we trust them ?
we only knew about the return of the jews and the decree of cyrus from the hebrew scriptures .
no other evidence .
suddenly , this appeared .
and great excitement to a world where those who believed in the scriptures had had their faith in creation shaken by evolution , by geology , here was evidence that the scriptures were historically true .
it 's a great 19th century moment .
but -- and this , of course , is where it becomes complicated -- the facts were true , hurrah for archeology , but the interpretation was rather more complicated .
because the cylinder account and the hebrew bible account differ in one key respect .
the babylonian cylinder is written by the priests of the great god of bablyon , marduk .
and , not surprisingly , they tell you that all this was done by marduk .
" marduk , we hold , called cyrus by his name . "
marduk takes cyrus by the hand , calls him to shepherd his people and gives him the rule of babylon .
marduk tells cyrus that he will do these great , generous things of setting the people free .
and this is why we should all be grateful to and worship marduk .
the hebrew writers in the old testament , you will not be surprised to learn , take a rather different view of this .
for them , of course , it can n't possibly by marduk that made all this happen .
it can only be jehovah .
and so in isaiah , we have the wonderful texts giving all the credit of this , not to marduk but to the lord god of israel -- the lord god of israel who also called cyrus by name , also takes cyrus by the hand and talks of him shepherding his people .
it 's a remarkable example of two different priestly appropriations of the same event , two different religious takeovers of a political fact .
god , we know , is usually on the side of the big battalions .
the question is , which god was it ?
and the debate unsettles everybody in the 19th century to realize that the hebrew scriptures are part of a much wider world of religion .
and it 's quite clear the cylinder is older than the text of isaiah , and yet , jehovah is speaking in words very similar to those used by marduk .
and there 's a slight sense that isaiah knows this , because he says , this is god speaking , of course , " i have called thee by thy name though thou hast not known me . "
i think it 's recognized that cyrus does n't realize that he 's acting under orders from jehovah .
and equally , he 'd have been surprised that he was acting under orders from marduk .
because interestingly , of course , cyrus is a good iranian with a totally different set of gods who are not mentioned in any of these texts .
that 's 1879 .
40 years on and we 're in 1917 , and the cylinder enters a different world .
this time , the real politics of the contemporary world -- the year of the balfour declaration , the year when the new imperial power in the middle east , britain , decides that it will declare a jewish national home , it will allow the jews to return .
and the response to this by the jewish population in eastern europe is rhapsodic .
and across eastern europe , jews display pictures of cyrus and of george v side by side -- the two great rulers who have allowed the return to jerusalem .
and the cyrus cylinder comes back into public view and the text of this as a demonstration of why what is going to happen after the war is over in 1918 is part of a divine plan .
you all know what happened .
the state of israel is setup , and 50 years later , in the late 60s , it 's clear that britain 's role as the imperial power is over .
and another story of the cylinder begins .
the region , the u.k. and the u.s. decide , has to be kept safe from communism , and the superpower that will be created to do this would be iran , the shah .
and so the shah invents an iranian history , or a return to iranian history , that puts him in the center of a great tradition and produces coins showing himself with the cyrus cylinder .
when he has his great celebrations in persepolis , he summons the cylinder and the cylinder is lent by the british museum , goes to tehran , and is part of those great celebrations of the pahlavi dynasty .
cyrus cylinder : guarantor of the shah .
10 years later , another story : iranian revolution , 1979 .
islamic revolution , no more cyrus ; we 're not interested in that history , we 're interested in islamic iran -- until iraq , the new superpower that we 've all decided should be in the region , attacks .
then another iran - iraq war .
and it becomes critical for the iranians to remember their great past , their great past when they fought iraq and won .
it becomes critical to find a symbol that will pull together all iranians -- muslims and non-muslims , christians , zoroastrians , jews living in iran , people who are devout , not devout .
and the obvious emblem is cyrus .
so when the british museum and tehran national musuem cooperate and work together , as we 've been doing , the iranians ask for one thing only as a loan .
it 's the only object they want .
they want to borrow the cyrus cylinder .
and last year , the cyrus cylinder went to tehran for the second time .
it 's shown being presented here , put into its case by the director of the national museum of tehran , one of the many women in iran in very senior positions , mrs. ardakani .
it was a huge event .
this is the other side of that same picture .
it 's seen in tehran by between one and two million people in the space of a few months .
this is beyond any blockbuster exhibition in the west .
and it 's the subject of a huge debate about what this cylinder means , what cyrus means , but above all , cyrus as articulated through this cylinder -- cyrus as the defender of the homeland , the champion , of course , of iranian identity and of the iranian peoples , tolerant of all faiths .
and in the current iran , zoroastrians and christians have guaranteed places in the iranian parliament , something to be very , very proud of .
to see this object in tehran , thousands of jews living in iran came to tehran to see it .
it became a great emblem , a great subject of debate about what iran is at home and abroad .
is iran still to be the defender of the oppressed ?
will iran set free the people that the tyrants have enslaved and expropriated ?
this is heady national rhetoric , and it was all put together in a great pageant launching the return .
here you see this out - sized cyrus cylinder on the stage with great figures from iranian history gathering to take their place in the heritage of iran .
it was a narrative presented by the president himself .
and for me , to take this object to iran , to be allowed to take this object to iran was to be allowed to be part of an extraordinary debate led at the highest levels about what iran is , what different irans there are and how the different histories of iran might shape the world today .
it 's a debate that 's still continuing , and it will continue to rumble , because this object is one of the great declarations of a human aspiration .
it stands with the american constitution .
it certainly says far more about real freedoms than magna carta .
it is a document that can mean so many things , for iran and for the region .
a replica of this is at the united nations .
in new york this autumn , it will be present when the great debates about the future of the middle east take place .
and i want to finish by asking you what the next story will be in which this object figures .
it will appear , certainly , in many more middle eastern stories .
and what story of the middle east , what story of the world , do you want to see reflecting what is said , what is expressed in this cylinder ?
the right of peoples to live together in the same state , worshiping differently , freely -- a middle east , a world , in which religion is not the subject of division or of debate .
in the world of the middle east at the moment , the debates are , as you know , shrill .
but i think it 's possible that the most powerful and the wisest voice of all of them may well be the voice of this mute thing , the cyrus cylinder .
thank you .
joshua klein : a thought experiment on the intelligence of crows 
 hacker and writer joshua klein is fascinated by crows . after a long amateur study of corvid behavior , he 's come up with an elegant thought experiment : a machine that could form a new bond between animal and human .
how many of you have seen the alfred hitchcock film " the birds " ?
any of you get really freaked out by that ?
you might want to leave now .
so , this is a vending machine for crows .
and over the past few days , many of you have been asking me , " how did you come to this ? how did you get started doing this ? "
and it started , as with many great ideas , or many ideas you can n't get rid of anyway , at a cocktail party .
about 10 years ago , i was at a cocktail party with a friend of mine , and we 're sitting there , and he was complaining about the crows that he had seen that were all over his yard and making a big mess .
and he was telling me that really , we ought to try and eradicate these things .
we gotta kill them because they 're making a mess .
i said that was stupid , you know , maybe we should just train them to do something useful .
and he said that was impossible .
and i 'm sure i 'm in good company in finding that tremendously annoying -- when someone tells you it 's impossible .
so , i spent the next 10 years reading about crows in my spare time .
and after 10 years of this , my wife eventually said , " look , you know , you gotta do this thing you 've been talking about , and build the vending machine . "
so i did .
but part of the reason that i found this interesting is that i started noticing that we are very aware of all the species that are going extinct on the planet as a result of human habitation expansion , and no one seems to be paying attention to all the species that are actually living -- that are surviving .
and i 'm talking specifically about synanthropic species , which are species that have adapted specifically for human ecologies , species like rats and cockroaches and crows .
and as i started looking at them , i was finding that they had hyper - adapted .
they 'd become extremely adept at living with us .
and in return , we just tried to kill them all the time .
and in doing so , we were breeding them for parasitism .
we were giving them all sorts of reasons to adapt new ways .
so , for example , rats are incredibly responsive breeders .
and cockroaches , as anyone who 's tried to get rid of them knows , have become really immune to the poisons that we 're using .
so , i thought , let 's build something that 's mutually beneficial .
well , then let 's build something that we can both benefit from , and find some way to make a new relationship with these species .
and so i built the vending machine .
but the story of the vending machine is a little more interesting if you know more about crows .
it turns out that crows are n't just surviving with human beings -- they 're actually really thriving .
they 're found everywhere on the planet except for the arctic and the southern tip of south america .
and in all that area , they 're only rarely found breeding more than five kilometers away from human beings .
so we may not think about them , but they 're always around .
and not surprisingly , given the human population growth , more than half of the human population is living in cities now .
and out of those , nine - tenths of the human growth population is occurring in cities .
we 're seeing a population boom with crows .
so bird counts are indicating that we might be seeing up to exponential growth in their numbers .
so that 's no great surprise .
but what was really interesting to me was to find out that the birds were adapting in a pretty unusual way .
and i 'll give you an example of that .
so this is betty . she 's a new caledonian crow .
and these crows use sticks in the wild to get insects and whatnot out of pieces of wood .
here , she 's trying to get a piece of meat out of a tube .
but the researchers had a problem .
they messed up and left just a stick of wire in there .
and she had n't had the opportunity to do this before .
you see , it was n't working very well .
so she adapted .
now this is completely unprompted . she had never seen this done before .
no one taught her to bend this into a hook , had shown her how it could happen .
but she did it all on her own .
so keep in mind that she 's never seen this done .
right .
yeah . all right .
that 's the part where the researchers freak out .
so , it turns out we 've been finding more and more that crows are really , really intelligent .
their brains are proportionate , in the same proportion as chimpanzee brains are .
there are all kinds of anecdotes for different kinds of intelligence they have .
for example , in sweden , crows will wait for fishermen to drop lines through holes in the ice .
and when the fishermen move off , the crows fly down , reel up the lines , and eat the fish or the bait .
it 's pretty annoying for the fishermen .
on an entirely different tack , at university of washington , they , a few years ago , were doing an experiment where they captured some crows on campus .
some students went out and netted some crows , brought them in , and were -- weighed them , and measured them and whatnot , and then let them back out again .
and were entertained to discover that for the rest of the week , these crows , whenever these particular students walked around campus , these crows would caw at them , and run around and make their life kind of miserable .
they were significantly less entertained when this went on for the next week .
and the next month . and after summer break .
until they finally graduated and left campus , and -- glad to get away , i 'm sure -- came back sometime later , and found the crows still remembered them .
so -- the moral being , do n't piss off crows .
so now , students at the university of washington that are studying these crows do so with a giant wig and a big mask .
it 's fairly interesting .
so we know that these crows are really smart , but the more i dug into this , the more i found that they actually have an even more significant adaptation .
crows have become highly skilled at making a living in these new urban environments .
in this japanese city , they have devised a way of eating a food that normally they can n't manage : drop it among the traffic .
the problem now is collecting the bits , without getting run over .
wait for the light to stop the traffic .
then , collect your cracked nut in safety .
joshua klein : yeah , yeah . pretty interesting .
so what 's significant about this is n't that crows are using cars to crack nuts .
in fact , that 's old hat for crows .
this happened about 10 years ago in a place called sendai city , at a driving school in the suburbs of tokyo .
and since that time , all of the crows in the neighborhood are picking up this behavior .
and now , every crow within five kilometers is standing by a sidewalk , waiting to collect its lunch .
so , they 're learning from each other . and research bears this out .
parents seem to be teaching their young .
they 've learned from their peers . they 've learned from their enemies .
if i have a little extra time , i 'll tell you about a case of crow infidelity that illustrates that nicely .
the point being that they 've developed cultural adaptation .
and as we heard yesterday , that 's the pandora 's box that 's getting human beings in trouble , and we 're starting to see it with them .
they 're able to very quickly and very flexibly adapt to new challenges and new resources in their environment , which is really useful if you live in a city .
so we know that there 's lots of crows .
we found out they 're really smart , and we found out that they can teach each other .
and when all this became clear to me , i realized the only obvious thing to do is build a vending machine .
so that 's what we did .
this is a vending machine for crows .
and it uses skinnerian training to shape their behavior over four stages .
it 's pretty simple .
basically , what happens is that we put this out in a field , or someplace where there 's lots of crows , and we put coins and peanuts all around the base of the machine .
and crows eventually come by , and eat the peanuts and get used to the machine being there .
and eventually , they eat up all the peanuts .
and then they see that there are peanuts here on the feeder tray , and they hop up and help themselves .
and then they leave , and the machine spits up more coins and peanuts , and life is really dandy , if you 're a crow .
then you can come back anytime and get yourself a peanut .
so , when they get really used to that , we move on to the crows coming back .
now , they 're used to the sound of the machine , and they keep coming back , and digging out these peanuts from amongst the pile of coins that 's there .
and when they get really happy about this , we go ahead and stymie them .
and we move to the third stage , where we only give them a coin .
now , like most of us who have gotten used to a good thing , this really pisses them off .
so , they do what they do in nature when they 're looking for something -- they sweep things out of the way with their beak .
and they do that here , and that knocks the coins down the slot , and when that happens , they get a peanut .
and so this goes on for some time .
the crows learn that all they have to do is show up , wait for the coin to come out , put the coin in the slot , and then they get their peanut .
and when they 're really good and comfortable with that , we move to the final stage , in which they show up and nothing happens .
and this is where we see the difference between crows and other animals .
squirrels , for example , would show up , look for the peanut , go away .
come back , look for the peanut , go away .
they do this maybe half a dozen times before they get bored , and then they go off and play in traffic .
crows , on the other hand , show up , and they try and figure it out .
they know that this machine 's been messing with them , through three different stages of behavior .
they figure it 's gotta have more to it .
so , they poke at it and peck at it and whatnot .
and eventually some crow gets a bright idea that , " hey , there 's lots of coins lying around from the first stage , lying around on the ground , " hops down , picks it up , drops it in the slot .
and then , we 're off to the races .
that crow enjoys a temporary monopoly on peanuts , until his friends figure out how to do it , and then there we go .
so , what 's significant about this to me is n't that we can train crows to pick up peanuts .
mind you , there 's 216 million dollars ' worth of change lost every year , but i 'm not sure i can depend on that roi from crows .
instead , i think we should look a little bit larger .
i think that crows can be trained to do other things .
for example , why not train them to pick up garbage after stadium events ?
or find expensive components from discarded electronics ?
or maybe do search and rescue ?
the main thing , the main point of all this for me is that we can find mutually beneficial systems for these species .
we can find ways to interact with these other species that does n't involve exterminating them , but involves finding an equilibrium with them that 's a useful balance .
thanks very much .
david logan : tribal leadership 
 david logan talks about the five kinds of tribes that humans naturally form -- in schools , workplaces , even the driver 's license bureau . by understanding our shared tribal tendencies , we can help lead each other to become better individuals .
what we 're really here to talk about is the " how . "
okay , so how exactly do we create this world-shattering , if you will , innovation ?
now , i want to tell you a quick story .
we 'll go back a little more than a year .
in fact , the date -- i 'm curious to know if any of you know what happened on this momentous date ?
it was february 3rd , 2008 .
anyone remember what happened , february 3rd , 2008 ?
super bowl . i heard it over here . it was the date of the super bowl .
and the reason that this date was so momentous is that what my colleagues , john king and halee fischer - wright , and i noticed as we began to debrief various super bowl parties , is that it seemed to us that across the united states , if you will , tribal councils had convened .
and they had discussed things of great national importance .
like , " do we like the budweiser commercial ? "
and , " do we like the nachos ? " and , " who is going to win ? "
but they also talked about which candidate they were going to support .
and if you go back in time to february 3rd , it looked like hilary clinton was going to get the democratic nomination .
and there were even some polls that were saying she was going to go all the way .
but when we talked to people , it appeared that a funnel effect had happened in these tribes all across the united states .
now what is a tribe ? a tribe is a group of about 20 -- so kind of more than a team -- 20 to about 150 people .
and it 's within these tribes that all of our work gets done .
but not just work . it 's within these tribes that societies get built , that important things happen .
and so as we surveyed the , if you will , representatives from various tribal councils that met , also known as super bowl parties , we sent the following email off to 40 newspaper editors the following day .
february 4th , we posted it on our website . this was before super tuesday .
we said , " the tribes that we 're in are saying it 's going to be obama . "
now , the reason we knew that was because we spent the previous 10 years studying tribes , studying these naturally occurring groups .
all of you are members of tribes .
in walking around at the break , many of you had met members of your tribe . and you were talking to them .
and many of you were doing what great , if you will , tribal leaders do , which is to find someone who is a member of a tribe , and to find someone else who is another member of a different tribe , and make introductions .
that is in fact what great tribal leaders do .
so here is the bottom line .
if you focus in on a group like this -- this happens to be a usc game -- and you zoom in with one of those super satellite cameras and do magnification factors so you could see individual people , you would in fact see not a single crowd , just like there is not a single crowd here , but you would see these tribes that are then coming together .
and from a distance it appears that it 's a single group .
and so people form tribes .
they always have . they always will .
just as fish swim and birds fly , people form tribes . it 's just what we do .
but here 's the rub .
not all tribes are the same , and what makes the difference is the culture .
now here is the net out of this .
you 're all a member of tribes .
if you can find a way to take the tribes that you 're in and nudge them forward , along these tribal stages to what we call stage five , which is the top of the mountain .
but we 're going to start with what we call stage one .
now , this is the lowest of the stages .
you do n't want this . okay ?
this is a bit of a difficult image to put up on the screen .
but it 's one that i think we need to learn from .
stage one produces people who do horrible things .
this is the kid who shot up virginia tech .
stage one is a group where people systematically sever relationships from functional tribes , and then pool together with people who think like they do .
stage one is literally the culture of gangs and it is the culture of prisons .
now , again , we do n't often deal with stage one .
and i want to make the point that as members of society , we need to .
it 's not enough to simply write people off .
but let 's move on to stage two .
now , stage one , you 'll notice , says , in effect , " life sucks . "
so , this other book that steve mentioned , that just came out , called " the three laws of performance , " my colleague , steve zaffron and i , argue that as people see the world , so they behave .
well , if people see the world in such a way that life sucks , then their behavior will follow automatically from that .
it will be despairing hostility .
they 'll do whatever it takes to survive , even if that means undermining other people .
now , my birthday is coming up shortly , and my driver 's license expires .
and the reason that that 's relevant is that very soon i will be walking into what we call a stage two tribe , which looks like this .
now , am i saying that in every department of motor vehicles across the land , you find a stage two culture ?
no . but in the one near me , where i have to go in just a few days , what i will say when i 'm standing in line is , " how can people be so dumb , and yet live ? "
now , am i saying that there are dumb people working here ?
actually , no , i 'm not .
but i 'm saying the culture makes people dumb .
so in a stage two culture -- and we find these in all sorts of different places -- you find them , in fact , in the best organizations in the world .
you find them in all places in society .
i 've come across them at the organizations that everybody raves about as being best in class .
but here is the point . if you believe and you say to people in your tribe , in effect , " my life sucks .
i mean , if i got to go to tedx usc my life would n't suck . but i do n't . so it does . "
if that 's how you talked , imagine what kind of work would get done .
what kind of innovation would get done ?
the amount of world-changing behavior that would happen ?
in fact it would be basically nil .
now when we go on to stage three : this is the one that hits closest to home for many of us .
because it is in stage three that many of us move .
and we park . and we stay .
stage three says , " i 'm great . and you 're not . "
i 'm great and you 're not .
now imagine having a whole room of people saying , in effect , " i 'm great and you 're not . "
or , " i 'm going to find some way to compete with you and come out on top as a result of that . "
a whole group of people communicating that way , talking that way .
i know this sounds like a joke . three doctors walk into a bar .
but , in this case , three doctors walk into an elevator .
i happened to be in the elevator collecting data for this book .
and one doctor said to the others , " did you see my article in the new england journal of medicine ? "
and the other said , " no . that 's great . congratulations ! "
the next one got kind of a wry smile on his face and said , " well while you were , you know , doing your research , " -- notice the condescending tone -- " while you were off doing your research , i was off doing more surgeries than anyone else in the department of surgery at this institution . "
and the third one got the same wry smile and said , " well , while you were off doing your research , and you were off doing your monkey meatball surgery , that eventually we 'll train monkeys to do , or cells or robots , or maybe not even need to do it at all , i was off running the future of the residency program , which is really the future of medicine . "
and they all kind of laughed and they patted him on the back .
and the elevator door opened , and they all walked out .
that is a meeting of a stage three tribe .
now , we find these in places where really smart , successful people show up .
like , oh , i do n't know , tedx usc .
here is the greatest challenge we face in innovation .
it is moving from stage three to stage four .
let 's take a look at a quick video snippet .
this is from a company called zappos , located outside las vegas .
and my question on the other side is just going to be , " what do you think they value ? "
it was not christmas time . there was a christmas tree .
